GRASP 
THE  PRINCIPLE OF TWO WITNESSES. ALWAYS RELY ON JUST A HAPPY FRAME OF MIND. EVEN THOUGH YOU ARE DISTRACTED, IF YOU CAN
DO IT, IT IS STILL MIND TRAINING. ALWAYS OBSERVE THE THREE GENERAL POINTS. CHANGE YOUR INCLINATION AND THEN MAINTAIN
IT. DO NOT DISCUSS DEFECTS. DON&#39;T THINK ABOUT ANYTHING THAT CONCERNS OTHERS. TRAIN FIRST AGAINST THE DEFILEMENT THAT IS
GREATEST. ABANDON ALL HOPES OF RESULTS. The first sutra:
GRASP THE PRINCIPLE OF TWO WITNESSES. It is one of the most important sutras, one
of the very fundamentals of inner alchemy. Let
it sink deep in your heart. It can transform you, it can give you a new
birth, a new vision, a new universe. It has two meanings; both meanings have to
be understood. The first meaning: there are two kinds of
witnesses. One kind is the people that surround
you. You are constantly aware that you are being
watched, witnessed. It creates selfconsciousness
in you. Hence the fear when you are on a stage facing
a big crowd. Actors
feel it, poets feel it, orators feel it -- and not only the beginners but even those who
have wasted their whole life in acting. When they come on the stage a great trembling
arises in them, a great fear, as to whether they will
be able to make it or not. With so many eyes watching you, you are reduced
to an object. You are no more a
subjectivity, you have become a thing. And you are afraid because they may not
appreciate you. They may not feed your ego, they may not like
you, they may reject you. Now you are in their hands. You are reduced to a dependent slave. Now you have to
work in such a way that you will be appreciated. You have to buttress their egos, so that
in response you can hope they will buttress your ego. When you are with your friends you are not
so afraid. You know them, they are
predictable, you depend on each other. But when you face the anonymous crowd, more
fear arises. Your whole being starts trembling, your whole
ego is at stake -- you can fail. Who knows? Your success is not guaranteed. This is the first kind of witness. Others are witnessing you, and you are just
a beggar. This is the situation in which millions of
people live. They live for others, hence they
only appear to live, they don&#39;t live in reality. They are always adjusting to others, because
they are happy only if others are happy with them. They are compromising constantly,
they are selling their souls, for a simple reason -- so their ego can be strengthened,
so that they can become famous, well known. Have you observed something of immense value,
that whenever a poet, a novelist or a scientist gets a Nobel prize, immediately
after that his creativity declines? No Nobel
laureate has been able to produce anything valuable compared to the things that he
created before he received it. What happens? Now you have attained the goal of the ego,
there is no further to go, so there is no more need to adjust to people. Once a book
becomes famous the author dies. That&#39;s what happened with Kahlil Gibran&#39;s
The Prophet. That&#39;s what happened with
Rabindranath&#39;s Gitanjali. And that is almost the rule, not the exception. Once you are
famous you stop compromising. For what? You are already famous. And when you stop
compromising, people start neglecting you, ignoring you. Your whole creativity was
rooted in the desire of the ego; now the ego feels at rest, all creativity disappears. This is the situation in which ninety-nine
point nine percent of people live. You know
only one kind of witness -- the other. And the other is always anxiety-creating. Jean-Paul Sartre rightly says, &quot;The other
is hell.&quot; The other does not allow you to relax. Why do you feel so relaxed in your bathroom,
in your bathtub? -- because the other is not there. But relaxing in your bathtub, if you suddenly
become aware that somebody is looking at you through the keyhole, suddenly
all relaxation disappears. You are tense
again. You are being watched. To create fear in people, down the ages, the
priests have been telling you that God is constantly watching you -- constantly watching
you, day in and day out. You may be
asleep; he never sleeps, he goes on sitting by the bed and watching. He not only watches
you, he watches your dreams and your thoughts too. So you are not only going to be
punished for your acts, but for your dreams, for your thoughts, your desires and your
feelings. The priests created great fear in people. Just think of God watching continuously. No
moment, not even a single moment, is allowed when you can be yourself. That was a
great strategy for reducing people to things. Why do we hanker for the attention of others?
-- because as we are, we are hollow. As we
are, we are NOT. As we are, we don&#39;t have a center of being. We are just noise, a crowd,
a house full of servants quarreling with each other because the master is absent or fast
asleep. We hanker for other people&#39;s attention so
that at least we can create a pseudocenter. If the real is missing, at least we can depend
on a pseudo-center. It will give you
an appearance of togetherness, it will make you a person. You are not an individual --
individuality is the fragrance of a really centered being, one who knows who he is. But if you are not an individual, then at
least you can be a person, you can attain personality. And personality has to be begged. Individuality is your innermost growth. It
is a growth; you need not beg it from anybody else, and nobody can give it to you. Individuality is your unfoldment. But personality can be begged, people can
give it to you -- in fact, only other people can give it
to you. If you are alone in the forest you will not
have any personality, remember. You will have
individuality but no personality at all. If you are alone in the Himalayas, who are
you -- a saint or a sinner? There is nobody to appreciate you or condemn
you, there is nobody to make you famous or notorious, there is nobody
except yourself. In your total aloneness,
who are you? A sinner or a saint? A very very famous person, vvip, or just a
nobody? You are neither. You are neither a very very important person
nor a nobody, because for both the other is a must. The eyes of others are needed to reflect your
personality. You
are neither this nor that. You are, but you are in your reality; you
are not created by others. You are as you are, in your utter nudeness,
authenticity. This is one of the reasons why many people
thought it wise to escape from the society. It
was not really to escape from the society, it was not really against society, it was
just an effort to renounce the personality. Buddha left his palace. He is not a coward and he is not an escapist,
so why did he leave the palace? Rabindranath has written a beautiful poem
about it. He left the palace; for
twelve years he roamed in the forests, practiced and meditated. And the day of ultimate
rejoicing came, he became enlightened. Naturally, the first thing that he remembered
was that he had to go back to the palace to deliver
the good news to the woman he had loved, to the child that he had left behind, to the
old father who was still hoping that he would come back. It is so human, it touches the heart. After twelve years he returned. His father was angry,
as fathers will be. His father could not see who he was, could
not see what he had become, could not see his individuality which
was so loud and so clear. The whole world
was becoming aware of it, but his father was blind to it. He was still thinking about him
in terms of the personality that was no longer there, that he had renounced the day he left
the palace. In fact Buddha had to leave the palace just
to renounce his personality. He wanted to
know himself as he was, not what others were thinking about him. But the father was
now looking into his face with the eyes of twelve years ago. He again said to Buddha, &quot;I
am your father, I love you -- although you have hurt me deeply and have wounded me
deeply. I am an old man, and these twelve years have
been a torture. You are my only
son, and I have somehow tried to live so that you could come back. Now you are back,
take charge of the empire, be the king! Now let me rest, it is time for me to rest. You
have committed a sin against me, and you have been almost murderous towards me, but I
forgive you and my doors are still open.&quot; Buddha laughed. He said, &quot;Sir, be a little more aware of whom
you are talking with. The
man who left the palace is no more; he died long ago. I am somebody else -- look at me!&quot; And the father became even more angry. He said, &quot;Do you want to deceive me? I don&#39;t
know you? I know you more than you know yourself! I am your father, I have given birth
to you, in your blood my blood circulates -- and I don&#39;t know you?&quot; Buddha said, &quot;Still I pray, sir.... You have certainly given birth to me. I came through
you, that&#39;s true, but you were only a vehicle. And just because somebody has come riding
on a horse, it does not mean that the horse knows the rider. I have passed through the
doors of your body, but that does not mean that you know me. In fact, twelve years ago,
even I did not know who I was. Now I know! Look into my eyes. Please forget the past --
be here now!&quot; But the father was incapable. With his old eyes, full of tears of anger
and joy, he could not see what had happened to Buddha. &quot;What nonsense is he talking about, that he
has died and is reborn, that he is a totally different
individuality? That he is no more a
personality, that he is an individuality?&quot; In dictionaries, &quot;personality&quot; and &quot;individuality&quot;
are synonyms. They are not
synonymous in life. The personality is false, a pretension, a
facade. Individuality is your
truth. Why do we 
want many many people to give attention to us? Why do we hanker for this? To create personality. And the more personality you create around
yourself, the less is the possibility of knowing your individuality. And when Buddha went to see his wife, she
was even more angry. She asked only one
question, a very significant one. She said, &quot;I have only one question to ask
you. I have
waited for all these years, and I have only one question. The question is simple, but be
honest.&quot; She still thinks that Buddha can be dishonest! &quot;Be honest, be true, and just tell
me one thing. Whatever you have attained in the forest,
was it impossible to attain it here in the palace? Is God only in the forest and not here in
the marketplace?&quot; Her question is of tremendous significance. Buddha said, &quot;Yes, the truth is as much here
as it is there. But it would have been very
difficult for me to know it here, because I was lost in a personality -- the personality
of the prince, the personality of a husband,
the personality of a father, the personality of a
son. The personality was too much. I never left the palace really, I was only
leaving my personality behind so that there would be
nobody to remind me who I was, and I could answer the question &#39;Who am I?&#39; on my own. I wanted to encounter myself. I was not
interested in others&#39; answers.&quot; But everybody else is interested in others&#39;
answers. How much you love it when
somebody says, &quot;You are so beautiful.&quot; Sarvesh was saying to Mukta, &quot;I feel a little
lost.&quot; Naturally. He is one of the best
ventriloquists the world knows; he has lived the life of a showman -- always on the stage,
lights flooding him from everywhere, thousands of people absolutely alert, watching
what he is doing with great appreciation. He has talent, genius, and he has lived flooded
with others&#39; attentions. Now naturally in this commune nobody comes
to say to him, &quot;Sarvesh, you are great. Sarvesh you are this, you are that.&quot; He must be feeling a little bit lost. That is a problem
for people who are public figures, it is very difficult for them to drop their personality. But he is trying, and I am certain that he
will succeed. It is going to happen. On one hand
he has hankered for the attention of others, but sooner or later you become tired of it
too, because it is just artificial food. Maybe it tastes good, maybe its flavor is
beautiful, but it does not nourish, it does not give you vitality. Personality is a showpiece. It can deceive others, but it cannot deceive
you, at least not for long. That&#39;s why Sarvesh has come here, tired, exhausted
by all the attention. But old
habit persists a little longer. Sooner or later he will start enjoying himself,
sooner or later he will start enjoying his individuality. And the day you can enjoy your individuality,
you are free -- free from dependence on others. If you ask for their attention you have to
pay for it in return. It is a bondage. The
more you ask people to be attentive towards you, the more you are becoming a thing, a
commodity, which can be sold and purchased. That&#39;s what happens to all public figures
-- to politicians, to showbiz people. This is one
kind of witnessing; you want to be witnessed. It gives you respectability, and in order
to have respectability you will have to create
character and morality. But all that character
and all that morality is just hypocrisy. You create it with a motivation, so that others
can be attracted towards you. If you want respectability you will have to
be a conformist, you will have to be obedient to the society and its demands. You will have to live according to wrong values,
because the society consists of people who are fast
asleep -- their values cannot be right values. Yes, but there is one thing: you can become
a saint. That&#39;s how thousands of your saints
are. They have sacrificed everything at the altar
of respectability. They have tortured
themselves, they have been suicidal, but they have gained one thing. They have become
saints, people worship them. If you want that kind of worship, respectability,
sainthood, then you will become more and more false, more and more pseudo, more
and more plastic. You will never be a real
rose. And that is the greatest calamity in life
that can happen to a man, to be a plastic rose
and not to be a real rose. The second kind of witnessing is totally different,
just the polar opposite. It is not that
you hanker for others&#39; attention; on the contrary, you start paying attention to yourself. You become a witness to your own being. You start watching your thoughts, desires,
dreams, motives, greeds and jealousies. You create a new kind of awareness within
you. You become a center, a silent center which
goes on watching whatsoever is happening. You are angry, and you watch it. You are not just angry, a new element is introduced
into it: you are watching it. And the miracle is that if you can watch anger,
the anger disappears without being repressed. The first kind of saint will have to repress
it. He will have to repress his sexuality, he
will have to repress his greed. And the more you repress anything, the deeper
it goes into your unconscious. It becomes part of your basement and it starts
affecting your life from there. It is like a wound that is oozing with pus,
but you have covered it. Just by covering it, you
don&#39;t become healthy, it does not heal. In fact by covering it you are helping it
to grow more and more. Your saints stink, stink of all kinds of repressions. The second kind of witnessing creates a totally
different kind of person. It creates the
sage. The sage is one who knows who he is, not according
to others. The sage is one who
lives a life according to his own nature, not according to others&#39; values. He has his own
vision and the courage to live it. The sage is rebellious. The saint is obedient, orthodox, conventional,
traditional, conformist. The sage is nonconformist, nontraditional,
nonconventional, rebellious. Rebellion is the very taste of his being. He is not dependent on others. He knows what
freedom is, and he knows the joys of freedom. The saint will be followed by a big crowd. The sage will have only the chosen people
who will be able to understand him. The sage will be misunderstood by the masses,
the saint will be worshipped. The sage
will be condemned by the masses, maybe even murdered. Jesus is crucified and the pope
is worshipped. Jesus is a sage and the pope is a saint. The saint has character and the sage has consciousness. And there is a tremendous
difference. They are as different as the earth and the
sky. Character is imposed for some
ulterior motives -- to gain respectability in this world and to have more and more
heavenly pleasures. Consciousness has no future, no motivation,
it is a joy unto itself. It
is not a means to some end, it is an end unto itself. To be with a saint is to be with an imitator. To be with a sage is to be with something
true and authentic. To be with a saint is to be with a teacher,
at the most. To be with a sage is
to be with a master. These are the two witnesses. Atisha says:
GRASP THE PRINCIPLE OF TWO WITNESSES. Avoid the first and plunge into the second. There is another meaning to this sutra too. The other meaning is, first witness the objects
of the mind. This is a higher meaning than the first. Witness the objects of the mind. Patanjali calls it dhyana, meditation -- from
the same word come zen and CH&#39;AN. Witness the objects, the contents, of the
mind. Whatsoever passes before you, watch it,
without evaluating, judging or condemning. Don&#39;t be for or against, just watch, and
dhyana, meditation, is created. And the second is, witness the witness itself
-- and samadhi is created, satori is created, the ultimate ecstasy is created. The first leads to the second. Start watching your thoughts
but don&#39;t stop there. When thoughts have disappeared then don&#39;t
think that you have arrived. One more thing has to be done, one more step. Now watch the watcher. Now just
witness the witnessing. Nothing else is left, only you are. Just suddenly become aware of
awareness itself, and then dhyana is transformed into samadhi. By watching the mind, the
mind disappears. By watching the witness, the witness expands
and becomes universal. The first is a negative step to get rid of
the mind. The second is a positive step to get
rooted in the ultimate consciousness -- call it God or nirvana or whatever you wish. The second sutra:
ALWAYS RELY ON JUST A HAPPY FRAME OF MIND. If you are unhappy, that simply means that
you have learned tricks for being unhappy, and nothing else. Unhappiness depends on the frame of your mind. There are people who
are unhappy in all kinds of situations. They have a certain quality in their mind
which transforms everything into unhappiness. If you tell them about the beauty of the rose
they immediately start counting the thorns. If you say to them, &quot;What a beautiful morning,
what a sunny day!&quot; they will look at you as if they are surprised by your statement. They
will say, &quot;So what! One day between two dark nights! It is only one day between two
dark nights, so what is the big deal? Why are you looking so fascinated?&quot; The same thing can be seen from a positive
reference; then suddenly each night is surrounded by two days. And then suddenly it is a miracle that the
rose is possible, that such a delicate flower is possible among so
many thorns. Everything is the same. All depends on what kind of frame you are
carrying in your head. Millions of people are carrying crosses; naturally,
obviously, they are burdened. Their
life is a drag. Their frame is such that it immediately becomes
focused on everything that is negative. It magnifies the negative; it is a morbid
approach towards life, pathological. But they go on thinking, &quot;What can we do? The world is such.&quot; No, the world is not such! The world is absolutely neutral. It has thorns, it has roses, it
has nights, it has days. The world is utterly neutral, balanced, it
has all. Now it depends
on you as to what you choose. If you have decided to choose only the wrong,
you will live in a wrong kind of world, because you
will live in your own chosen world. That&#39;s how people create hell and heaven on
the same earth. It looks very unbelievable
that Buddha lived on this earth with the same kind of people, and lived in paradise. And
you also live on the same earth with the same kind of people, and you live in hell. Now, there are two possibilities. The political mind says, &quot;Change the world.&quot; The
religious mind says, &quot;Change the frame of your mind.&quot; Religion and politics are diametrically opposite. There is a possibility one day of a
meeting of science and religion. Sooner or later, science and religion are
bound to meet, because their approach is very similar. Maybe the direction is different -- science
searches the outer, and religion the inner. But the search, the quality of the search,
is the same. The spirit of the search is the same. But I don&#39;t see any possibility that politics
and religion can ever meet. Politics always
thinks the world is wrong; change the society, the economic structure, this and that, and
everything will be okay. And religion says the world has always been
the same and will remain the same; you can change only one thing
-- the context of your mind, the space of your mind. ALWAYS RELY ON JUST A HAPPY FRAME OF MIND. Let it become one of the fundamental rules
of your life. Even if you come across a
negative, find something positive in it. You will always be able to find something. And
the day you become skillful at finding the positive in the negative, you will dance with
joy. Try it, try the new vision of life. Think in terms of optimism, don&#39;t be a pessimist. The
pessimist creates hell around himself and lives in it -- you live in the world you create. Remember, there is not only one world, there
are as many worlds as there are minds in the world. I live in my world, you live in your own world. They are not only different,
they never overlap. They are utterly different, they exist on
different planes. Atisha makes it a fundamental rule for his
disciples to live in a happy frame of mind. Then you start turning each opportunity into
a challenge for growth. For example,
somebody insults you. Now it is so clear that you have been insulted,
how can you practice a happy frame of mind now? Yes, it can be practiced. Insult a buddha and you
will know. Gautam Buddha was insulted once. He was passing by a village, and the villagers
were very against him. It was impossible for them to comprehend what
he was teaching. Compared to the buddhas, the whole world is
always very primitive, very unsophisticated, very stupid. The people gathered and insulted him very
much. Buddha listened very silently and then he
said, &quot;If you are finished, can I take leave of
you, because I have to reach the other village, and they must be waiting for me. If you are
not finished, then when I return tomorrow morning you can come again and finish your
job.&quot; One man from the crowd asked, &quot;Have you not
heard us? We have been insulting you,
abusing you. We have been using all kinds of dirty words,
anything that we can find.&quot; Buddha laughed. He said, &quot;You have come a little too late
-- you should have come ten years ago. Then I was in the same frame of mind as you
are; then I would have replied, and replied well. But now this is simply an opportunity for
me to be compassionate, to be meditative. I am thankful to you that you allowed me this
opportunity. This is just a test -
- a test of whether or not I have anything of the negative lurking anywhere in my
unconscious mind. &quot;And I am happy to declare to you, friends,
that not even a single shadow of the negative has passed through my mind. I have remained utterly blissful, you have
not been able to affect me in any way. And I am tremendously happy that you gave
me such a great opportunity. Very few people are as kind as you are.&quot; This is how one should use situations, this
is how a sannyasin should use negative opportunities for inner growth, for inner
understanding, for meditativeness, for love, for
compassion. And once you have learned this happy frame
of mind, this positive vision of life, you will be surprised that the whole
existence starts functioning in a totally different
way. It starts mothering you. It starts helping you in every possible way,
it becomes a great friend. And to know this is to know God. To know this, that existence mothers you,
is to know God. There is no other God -- just this feeling,
this tremendous feeling, this penetrating feeling, that the existence loves you, protects
you, helps you and showers many many blessings on you; that the existence is graceful
towards you, that you are not alienated, that you are not a stranger, that this is
your home. To feel that &quot;This existence is my home&quot; is
to know God. The third sutra:
EVEN THOUGH YOU ARE DISTRACTED, IF YOU CAN DO IT, IT IS STILL MIND
TRAINING. Yes, sometimes you will be distracted. You are not yet all buddhas -- there will
be times when you will be distracted, there will be
times when you will be dragged down by the negative, sucked in by the old habit. And by the time you know, it has already happened;
you are miserable. The shadow has fallen on you, that sunlit
peak has disappeared, you have fallen into the dark valley. Then what to do in those moments? Atisha says:
EVEN THOUGH YOU ARE DISTRACTED, IF YOU CAN DO IT, IT IS STILL MIND
TRAINING. What does he mean by &quot;if you can do it?&quot; This is of great importance. If you can be
attentive to your inattention, if you can be aware that you have fallen into the trap
of the negative, it is still meditation, it is still
mind training, you are still growing. Yes, many times you will fall, it is natural. And many times you will forget, it is natural. And many times you will be trapped and it
will take time for you to remember. But the
moment you remember, remember TOTALLY. Wake up totally and say, &quot;I have fallen.&quot; And see the difference. If you ask the ordinary religious person he
will say, &quot;Repent -- punish yourself.&quot; But Atisha is saying: If you are attentive,
that&#39;s enough. Be attentive to
your inattention, be aware that you have not been aware, that&#39;s all. No repentance is
needed. Don&#39;t feel guilty; it is natural, it is human. To fall many times is not something to
feel guilty about. To commit errors, to go astray, is part of
our human frailty and limitations. So there is no need to repent. Repentance is ugly. It is like playing with your wound, fingering
your wound. It is
unnecessary, and not only unnecessary but harmful -- the wound may become septic, and
fingering your wound is not going to help it heal either. If you have fallen, just know that you have
fallen, with no guilt, with no repentance. There is no need to go anywhere to confess
it, just knowing it is enough. And knowing it,
you are helping your awareness to grow. Less and less will you fall, because knowing
will become more and more strong in you. The fourth sutra:
ALWAYS OBSERVE THE THREE GENERAL POINTS. What are the three general points? The first is regularity of meditativeness. Remember, it
is very difficult to create meditation, it is very easy to lose it. Anything higher takes much
arduous effort to create, but it can disappear within a moment. To lose contact with it is
very easy. That is one of the qualities of the higher. It is like growing a roseflower -- just a
little hard wind and the rose has withered and the petals
have fallen, or some animal has entered the garden and the rose is eaten. It is very easy to lose it, and it was so
long a journey to create it. And whenever there is a conflict between the
higher and the lower, always remember, the lower wins easily. If you clash a roseflower with a rock, the
roseflower is going to die, not the rock. The rock may not even become aware that there
has been a clash, that it has killed something beautiful. Your whole past is full of rocks, and when
you start growing a rose of awareness in you, there are a thousand and one possibilities
of it being destroyed by your old rocks -- habits, mechanical habits. You will have to be very watchful and careful. You will have
to walk like a woman who is pregnant. Hence the man of awareness walks carefully,
lives carefully. And this has to be a regular phenomenon. It is not that one day you do a little meditation,
then for a few days you forget about it, and then one day you do it again. It has to be as
regular as sleep, as food, as exercise, as breathing. Only then will the infinite glory of
God open its doors to you. So the first general point is: be regular. The second general point is: don&#39;t waste your
time with the nonessential. Don&#39;t fool
around. Millions of people are wasting their time
with the nonessential, and the irony is that they know that it is nonessential. But they say, &quot;What else to do?&quot; They are not
aware of anything more significant. People are playing cards, and if you ask them,
&quot;What are you doing?&quot; they say they are killing time. Killing time? Time is life! So you are really killing life. And the time that
you are killing cannot be recaptured again; once gone, it is gone forever. The man who wants to become a buddha has to
drop the nonessential more and more, so that more energy is available for the essential. Take a look at your life, how many
nonessential things you are doing -- and for what? And how long you have done them --
and what have you gained? Are you going to repeat the same stupid pattern
your whole life? Enough is enough! Take a look, meditate over it. Say only that which is essential, do
only that which is essential, read only that which is essential. And so much time is saved
and so much energy is saved, and all that energy and time can easily be channeled
towards meditation, towards inner growth, towards witnessing. I have never seen a man who is so poor that
he cannot meditate. But people are engaged
in foolish things, utterly foolish. They don&#39;t look foolish, because everybody
else is also doing the same. But the seeker has to be watchful. Take more note of what you are doing, what
you are doing with your life -- because to grow roses
of awareness much energy will be needed, a reservoir of energy will be needed. All that is great comes only when you have
extra energy. If your whole energy is wasted on the mundane,
then the sacred will never be contacted. And the third general point is: don&#39;t rationalize
your errors and mistakes. The mind tends
to rationalize. If you commit some mistake, the mind says,
&quot;It had to be so, there were reasons for it. I am not responsible, the very situation made
this happen.&quot; And the mind is
very clever at rationalizing everything. Avoid rationalizing your own errors and mistakes,
because if you rationalize you protect them. Then they will be repeated. Avoid rationalizing your errors. Stop rationalization
completely. Reasoning is one thing, rationalization is
totally another. Reasoning can be
used for some positive purposes, but rationalization can never be used for any positive
purpose. And you will be able to find when you are
rationalizing, you can deceive others but you
cannot deceive yourself. You know that you have fallen. Rather than wasting time in
rationalizing and convincing yourself that nothing has gone wrong, put the whole energy
into being aware. All these general points are to help you so
that you can block the leaks of your energy. Otherwise God goes on pouring energy into
you, and you have so many leakages that you are never full. Energy comes, but leaks out. The fifth sutra:
CHANGE YOUR INCLINATION AND THEN MAINTAIN IT. Change your inclination from the mind to the
heart. That is the first change. Think less,
feel more. Intellectualize less, intuit more. Thinking is a very deceptive process, it makes
you feel that you are doing great things. But you are simply making castles in the air. Thoughts are nothing but castles in the air. Feelings are more material, more substantial. They transform you. Thinking about love is
not going to help, but feeling love is bound to change you. Thinking is very much loved
by the ego, because the ego feeds on fictions. The ego cannot digest any reality, and
thinking is a fictitious process. It is a kind of dreaming, a sophisticated
dreaming. Dreams
are pictorial and thinking is conceptual, but the process is the same. Dreaming is a
primitive kind of thinking, and thinking is a civilized kind of dreaming. Change from the mind to the heart, from thinking
to feeling, from logic to love. And the second change is from the heart to
the being -- because there is a still deeper layer in you where even feelings cannot reach. Remember these three words: mind, heart,
being. The being is your pure nature. Surrounding the being is feeling, and surrounding
feeling is thinking. Thinking is far away from being but feeling
is a little closer; it reflects some glory of the being. It is just as in the sunset the sun is reflected
by the clouds and the clouds start having beautiful colors. They themselves are not the sun, but they
are reflecting the light of the sun. Feelings are close to being, so they reflect
something of the being. But one has to go
beyond feelings too. Then what is being? It is neither thinking nor feeling, it is
pure amness. One simply is. Thinking is very selfish and egoistic. Feeling is more altruistic, less egoistic. Being is noego,
egolessness -- neither selfishness nor altruism but a spontaneity, a moment-tomoment
responsiveness. One does not live according to oneself, one
lives according to God, according to the whole. Feeling is half, and no half can ever satisfy
you. Thinking and feeling are both halves and
you will remain divided. Being is total, and only the total can bring
contentment. And the ultimate, the fourth change, is from
being to non-being. That is nirvana,
enlightenment; one simply disappears, one simply is not. God is, enlightenment is. Light
is, delight is, but there is nobody who is delighted. Neti neti: neither this nor that, neither
existence nor nonexistence -- this is the ultimate state. Atisha is slowly slowly taking his
disciples towards it. Let me repeat: from thinking to feeling, from
feeling to being, from being to non-being, and one has arrived. One has disappeared and one has arrived. One is no more, for the
first time. And for the first time one really is. The sixth sutra:
DO NOT DISCUSS DEFECTS. The mind tends to discuss the defects of others. It helps the ego to feel good. Everybody
is such a sinner; when everybody is such a sinner, comparatively one feels like a saint. When everybody is doing wrong, it feels good
that &quot;At least I am not doing that much wrong.&quot; Hence people talk about others&#39; defects; not
only do they talk about them, they go on magnifying them. That&#39;s why there is so much joy in gossiping. When the gossip passes
from one hand to another hand, it becomes richer. And when it passes back again,
something will be added to it. By the evening, if you come to know the gossip
that you started in the morning, you will be surprised. In the morning it was just a molehill, now
it is a mountain. People are very creative, really creative
and inventive. Why are people so interested in gossiping
about others, in finding fault with others, in
looking into others&#39; loopholes and defects? Why are people continuously trying to look
through others&#39; keyholes? The reason is, this helps to give them a better
feeling about themselves. They become Peeping Toms, just to have a good
feeling, &quot;I am far better.&quot; There is a motivation. It is not just to help others -- it is not,
whatsoever they say, notwithstanding what they say. The basic reason is, &quot;If others are very ugly,
then I am beautiful.&quot; They are following Albert Einstein&#39;s theory
of relativity. I have heard: Mulla Nasruddin was staying
in a hotel. A telegram had arrived from home
and he was in a hurry to catch the train. He rushed. But when he reached downstairs and
looked at his luggage the umbrella was missing. He had to go up to the room again and
by the time he reached the fourteenth floor the room had already been given to somebody
else -- a newlywed couple. Although he was in a hurry and he might miss
the train if he lingered there a little longer, the temptation was great. So he looked through the keyhole to see what
was happening. A newlywed couple -- they were also in a hurry,
they had already waited too long; the marriage ceremony and the church and the guests
and all that -- somehow they had got rid of all of them and they were lying naked
on the bed, talking sweet nothings. And the
young man was saying to the woman, &quot;You have such beautiful eyes. I have never seen
such beautiful eyes! To whom do these eyes belong?&quot; And the woman said, &quot;To you! To you, and only to you!&quot; And so on, the list went on. &quot;These beautiful hands, these beautiful breasts,&quot;
and this and that -- this went on and on. And Mulla had completely forgotten about the
train and the taxi waiting downstairs. But then suddenly he remembered his umbrella. When the list
was about to be completed, he said, &quot;Wait! When you come to the yellow umbrella, that
belongs to me.&quot; People are unconsciously doing many things. If they become conscious these things will
drop. Atisha says: Don&#39;t ponder over others&#39; defects,
it is none of your business. Don&#39;t
interfere in others&#39; lives, it is none of your business. But there are great moralists whose whole
work is to see who is doing wrong. Their
whole life is wasted; they are like police dogs sniffing here and there. Their whole life&#39;s
work is to know who is doing wrong. Atisha says: That is an ugly trait and a sheer
wastage of time and energy. Not only is it a
wastage but it strengthens and gratifies the ego. And an ego more gratified becomes more
of a barrier. And remember, it is not only a question of
not discussing others&#39; defects. Don&#39;t even be
too much concerned about your own defects. Take note, be aware, and let the matter be
settled then and there. There are a few other people who brag about
their own defects.... It is suspected by psychologists that Saint
Augustine&#39;s autobiography, his confessions, are
not true. He bragged about his defects. He was not that bad a person. But man is really
unbelievable. If you start bragging about your qualities,
then too, you go to extremes. If
you start bragging about sins, then too, you go to the extreme. But in both ways you do
only one thing. What Saint Augustine is doing is simple. By bragging about his defects and sins and
all kinds of ugly things, he is preparing a context. Out of such a hell he rose and became a
great saint. Now his saintliness looks far more significant
than it would have looked if he had been simply a good person from the very
beginning. And the same is the case with Mahatma Gandhi
in India. In his autobiography he simply
exaggerates about his defects and goes on talking about them. It helps him in a very
vicarious way. He was so low, he was in such a seventh hell,
and from there he started rising and became a great mahatma, a great
saint. The journey was very arduous. This is
very ego-fulfilling. Don&#39;t discuss others&#39; defects, don&#39;t discuss
your own defects. Take note, and that is that. Atisha says awareness is enough, nothing else
is needed. If you are fully aware of
anything, the fire of awareness burns it. There is no need for any other remedy. DON&#39;T THINK ABOUT ANYTHING THAT CONCERNS OTHERS. And that&#39;s what you go on thinking. Ninety-nine percent of the things that you
think about concern others. Drop them -- drop them immediately! Your life is short, and your life is slipping
out of your fingers. Each moment you are less,
each day you are less, and each day you are less alive and more dead! Each birthday is a
death day; one more year is gone from your hands. Be a little more intelligent. DO NOT THINK ABOUT ANYTHING THAT CONCERNS
OTHERS. TRAIN FIRST
AGAINST THE DEFILEMENT THAT IS GREATEST. Gurdjieff used to say to his disciples -- the
first thing, the very very first thing, &quot;Find out
what your greatest characteristic is, your greatest undoing, your central characteristic
of unconsciousness.&quot; Each one&#39;s is different. Somebody is sex-obsessed. In a country like India, where for centuries
sex has been repressed, that has become almost a universal
characteristic; everybody is obsessed with sex. Somebody is obsessed with anger, and somebody
else is obsessed with greed. You
have to watch which is your basic obsession. So first find the main characteristic upon
which your whole ego edifice rests. And then be
constantly aware of it, because it can exist only if you are unaware. It is burnt in the fire
of awareness automatically. And remember, remember always, that you are
not to cultivate the opposite of it. Otherwise, what happens is a person becomes
aware that &quot;My obsession is anger, so what should I do? I should cultivate compassion.&quot; &quot;My obsession is sex, so what should I do? I
should practice brahmacharya, celibacy.&quot; People move from one thing to the opposite. That is not the way of transformation. It is
the same pendulum, moving from left to right, from right to left. And that&#39;s how your life
has been moving for centuries; it is the same pendulum. The pendulum has to be stopped in the middle. And that&#39;s the miracle of awareness. Just
be aware that &quot;This is my chief pitfall, this is the place where I stumble again and again,
this is the root of my unconsciousness.&quot; Don&#39;t try to cultivate the opposite of it,
but pour your whole awareness into it. Create a great bonfire of awareness, and it
will be burned. And then the pendulum stops in the middle. And with the stopping of the pendulum, time
stops. You suddenly enter into the world of
timelessness, deathlessness, eternity. And the last sutra:
ABANDON ALL HOPES OF RESULTS. The ego is result-oriented, the mind always
hankers for results. The mind is never
interested in the act itself, its interest is in the result. &quot;What am I going to gain out of it?&quot; If the mind can manage to gain, without going
through any action, then it will choose the shortcut. That&#39;s why educated people become very cunning,
because they are able to find shortcuts. If you earn money through a legal way, it
may take your whole life. But you can earn
money by smuggling, by gambling or by something else -- by becoming a political
leader, a prime minister, a president -- then you have all the shortcuts available to you. The educated person becomes cunning. He does not become wise, he simply becomes
clever. He becomes so cunning that he wants to have
everything without doing anything for it. The mind, the ego, are all result-oriented. The being is not result-oriented. And how can
the non-being ever be result-oriented? It is not there at all in the first place. Meditation happens only to those who are not
result-oriented. There is an ancient story:
A man was very much interested in self-knowledge, in self-realization. His whole search
had been to find a master who could teach him meditation. He went from one master to
another, but nothing was happening. Years went by, he was tired, exhausted. Then someone told him, &quot;If you really want
to find a master you will have to go to the Himalayas. He lives in some unknown parts of
the Himalayas; you will have to search for him. One thing is certain, he is there. Nobody
knows exactly where, because whenever somebody comes to know of him he moves
from that place and goes even deeper into the Himalayan ranges.&quot; The man was getting old, but he gathered courage. For two years he had to work to earn
money for the journey, then he made the journey. It is an old story. He had to ride on
camels and horses and then go on foot, and then he reached the Himalayas. People said,
&quot;Yes, we have heard about the old man, very ancient he is, one cannot say how old --
maybe three hundred years old, or even five hundred years old; nobody knows. He lives
somewhere, but the location cannot be given to you. Nobody is aware of where exactly
you will find him, but he is there. If you search hard you are bound to find him.&quot; The man searched and searched and searched. For two years he was roaming in the
Himalayas -- tired, exhausted, dead exhausted, living only on wild fruits, leaves and
grass. He had lost much weight. But he was intent that he had to find this
man; even if it took his life, it would be worth it. And can you imagine? One day he saw a small hut, a grass hut. He was so tired that he
was not even able to walk, so he crawled. He reached the hut. There was no door; he
looked in, there was nobody inside. And not only was there nobody inside, but
there was every sign that for years there had been nobody
inside. You can think what would have happened to
that man. He fell on the ground. Out of
sheer tiredness he said, &quot;I give up.&quot; He was lying there under the sun in the cool
breeze of the Himalayas, and for the first time he started
feeling so blissful, he had never tasted such bliss! Suddenly he started feeling full of light. Suddenly all thoughts disappeared,
suddenly he was transported -- and for no reason at all, because he had not done anything. And then he became aware that somebody was
leaning over him. He opened his eyes. A
very ancient man was there. And the old man, smiling, said, &quot;So you have
come. Have
you something to ask me?&quot; And the man said, &quot;No.&quot; And the old man laughed, a great belly laugh
which was echoed by the valleys. And he
said, &quot;So now you know what meditation is?&quot; And the man said, &quot;Yes.&quot; What had happened? That assertion which came from his deepest
core of being -- &quot;I give up&quot; -- in that very giving up, all goal-oriented
mind efforts and endeavors disappeared. &quot;I
give up.&quot; In that very moment he was no more the same
person. And bliss showered on
him. He was silent, he was a nobody, and he touched
the ultimate stratum of non-being. Then he knew what meditation is. Meditation is a non-goal-oriented state of
mind. This last sutra is tremendously significant:
ABANDON ALL HOPES OF RESULTS. And then there is no need to go anywhere,
God will come to you. Deep down say, &quot;I give
up.&quot; And silence descends, benediction showers. Meditate over these sutras, they are meant
only for meditators. Atisha is not a
philosopher, he is a siddha, a buddha. What he is saying is not some speculation. These
are clear-cut instructions given only to those who are ready to travel, to go on the
pilgrimage into the unknown. Enough for today. 