Merry Meet and Welcome to WTMC The Magical
Circle School&#39;s Podcast. In this months Podcast we have the crafting
club segment with DannielleRae, the kitchen witch segment with DannielleRae, we will catch
up with the Book Club with Colleen, ask a witch with Colleen, the deity segment with
myself Steven, the Creature Feature with Freyja, the Tarot Table with Jen, Reading the Numbers
with Freyja, we find out who won the Spell of the Month contest with Colleen and we have
the getting to know your class segment with DannielleRae. Hi!I&#39;m DannielleRae with the Crafting Club
Updates. Current theme of the month is dream pillows
and sachets, and I have personally experimented with
a couple different dried herbs and aromatics with some success, and some failure. Kind of
amazing how the energies can be compatible, but the scents don&#39;t blend the way you think
they should. Our upcoming theme of the month is staffs
and wands... This is a tool that you can choose already
found and made all yours by personalization and consecration, or you can start from scratch
finding the raw materials yourself. While using wood is the most common start
for crafting either the staff or wand, you may choose a material
that calls to you. I&#39;ve seen blown glass, beaded
creations, even assembled and wired gemstones that can serve as wands. The more traditional route is to opt for a
branch from a chosen tree, bush, or even matured herb
plant. The kind of source that you pick can be completely
random, as in a fallen limb from a tree that you find during a walk through the woods,
or this can be a very deliberate choice made specifically for the energies of a host tree. Research some tree associations to find something
that is in line with your purposes, or the kind
of magick that you are attracted to. There are some different schools of thought
on how to obtain the perfect piece to craft a wand or
staff. You can pick the part of a living tree or
bush and communicate your intent and your thanks
for the gift that you will cut from the tree. If you go this route, be sure you research
the best time and way to harvest your branch so that you
will inflict less damage to the host. However, other
practitioners believe that this is never a good thing to do, and you simply must wait
for the gift. The choice that you make leads you into the
next basic step of how to craft the wand or staff. Will
you strip the bark? Carve symbols or words into the wood? But, is that the next step for you? When do you attune the wand or staff? Is this before or during the crafting process? Is this
something that you do after you have personalized it and have had a chance to experience the
energy that resides within? This is the journey of witch crafting...and
we want to discuss this process with you. Come and
share your experiences, or maybe you will get inspired to try to craft your own wand
or staff. Join the  Crafting Club and get involved with like-minded
crafters. Who knows what you&#39;ll be
inspired to try. HI, I am DannielleRae! Welcome to the Kitchen Witch Club updates. This month in the Plant of the Month series,
we will discuss harvesting apples, and sowing spring
cabbages. The apple is such a versatile fruit, that
it can be considered the white candle of magick. Every part
of the apple can be used, and the apple tree itself produces usable magickal tools throughout
the year. For instance, The leaves of an apple tree
can be harvested at anytime, and dried like any other
herb. Apple blossoms are a five petaled bud that
reveals a striking flower, usually pink on the
outside and white on the inside. These are harvested in the spring time and
can be dried and stored for spellwork, spiritual offerings, or can
be used in teas and other edible recipes. When apple
blossoms are fertilized either by itself, as in self-pollinating varieties or the pollen
of another companion tree, the base of the bottom actually
grows to become the fruit. There are four basic groups of cultivars:
Early flowering, midseason flowering, late-season flowering and very-late-season flowering. Here in the United States, there are more
than 100 different varieties that are grown commercially,
so our supermarket and produce stands seem to
always have some sort of apples available, no matter the time of the year. Worldwide there are
more than 7500 varieties of apples, so chances are, no matter where in the world you are,
there is an apple available! The most popular varieties include Red Delicious,
Golden Delicious, Granny Smith, McIntosh, Rome Beauty, Fuji, Jonathan,
York, Gala, Idared, and Yellow Newton. Apple trees can grow from 10 to 30 feet tall,
and can easily be as wide. The tree itself may live for
more than 100 years. The older the tree the longer it takes the
fruit to mature. It can take several
years for a new apple tree to bear fruit that is acceptable – anywhere from 3-6 years
depending on the variety. It can take 100 to 200 days for the fruit
to mature enough for harvest. It can be
difficult to gauge the maturity from skin color alone. A mature apple is easily picked from the tree
and won&#39;t require being cut from it. However, the best test is to taste the apple. This will reveal if
the apple is sour, or starchy. The apples should be firm and crisp, but the
flavor needs to be right. Once picked, the apples need to be sorted. The ones with damage or blights need to be
used or tossed right away. The saying that, “one bad apple spoils the
whole barrel” has merits. If one bad
apple is stored with the good ones, soon the whole bunch of them will turn bad. This is actually
based on the production of ethylene gases, but we don&#39;t have to get that scientific. Simply, store
your apples in a cool dry place, sorted by size. Use larger apples first, since the smaller
will keep fresh for longer. The apples with the stems intact will also
store longer. Apples are so treasured that many cultures
have history of giving offerings to the trees themselves,
in hopes that they would have an abundant harvest in the next year. Pouring apple cider or juice
on the ground of the tree or in any of your garden areas is done to promote the fertility
of the soil. Apples are often used in spellwork, because
the apple itself, when cut width-wise reveals a 5-
pointed star. Basic Information and Aspects for apples include
Common Folk Names: such as Fruit of the Gods, Fruit of the Uderworld, Silver Branch, The
Silver Bough, and Tree of Love
Gender: is Feminine Planet: is Venus
Element: is Water Powers: are for Love, Healing, Garden Magic,
and Immortality Magickal Uses: eat the apple for wisdom, knowledge
and good health. Share eating the apple with
one that you love or in other love spells. Cut the apple, rub the pieces on your body
and bury them for localized healing. After a storm, gather branches from apple
trees to use for wands or wreaths to promote emotional magick and the element
of water. Spring Cabbage– Sow
To go along with our apples, we have spring cabbages to sow for the upcoming colder months. Believe it or not, I was a bit skeptical on
if the harvesting chart was correct. Spring cabbages in
this time of the year? Didn&#39;t make sense. After a lot of research, there is a huge amount
of varieties available when it comes to cabbages, and you
can actually have them all year round as long as you
plan! So &#39;spring cabbage&#39; may not necessarily be
the type you will be sowing this month. I&#39;ll start with the different varieties encase
you still need to choose them. Spring Cabbages: April; Durham Early; Greensleeves;
January King; Offenham 1-Myatt&#39;s; Offenham Compacta; Pixie; and Spring Hero. Summer Cabbages: Castello; Derby Day; Hispi;
Minicole; Primo; and Quickstep. Autumn Cabbages: Autoro; Bingo; Castello;
Minnicole; Rapier and Winnigstadt. Winter Cabbages and Savoys: Best of All; Capriccio;
Celtic; Christmas; Drumhead; Duncan; Hidena; Ice Queen; January King; Novusa; Ormskirk
Late; Tundra; and Wivoy. Red Cabbages include: Kissendrup; Metro; Red
Drumhead; Red Dutch; Ruby Ball; and Vesta. So, sowing time for &#39;spring&#39; cabbage is actually
late summer, so perfect to sow now or even in the
next month. Sow them about 1 cm/ 1⁄2 inch down in the
earth, with the distance between rows 15 cm/ 6 inches and then plant the seeds 30-38
cm/ 12-15 inches apart. Basically just give them
enough room to grow! These cabbages will be harvested in the spring. They do their best growing in open sunny places,
in soils that are fertile and reasonably free for draining. If you&#39;re growing them inside first, then
give them about 4-5 weeks until they have about four or five leaves and then move them to
their final resting place. Make sure you firm the soil around the roots once you&#39;ve moved them, this
can be done using a trowel though I&#39;m sure patting it with your hands works just as well! Water them well and keep watering until they
have become established. Don&#39;t forget to hoe regularly and keep the
weeds away. Draw up the soil around the stems for overwintering varieties and remove
any dead leaves. There are some pests and diseases to look
out for. Mainly cabbage root fly, but these can be
taken care of by protecting the roots and stems
of the cabbage with a collar. The collar can be made of roof felt or similar materials. This prevents the flies from laying their
eggs. Keep and eye out for caterpillars, and flea beetles. Also slugs and snails need to be kept an eye
on. However, the worst thing to look out for is club root, which
causes the roots to swell up. If you find this, make sure you either burn the plants or destroy them
before they pass the disease onto the other cabbages. Liming helps to deter club root, as does growing
the cabbages in a different bed each year. Basic Information and Aspects for cabbages
include Gender: is Feminine Planet: is the Moon Element: is Water Powers: are for Luck Magickal Uses: Plant cabbages first thing
after a couple has gotten married in the garden of the couple, especially if they wish to have good
luck in their marriage and garden. Today we will share a simple Apple Crisp recipe. Use this to increase loving and harmonious energy in relationships. Also helpful for helping someone understand
the emotional level of a situation. Start by preheating your oven to 375 degrees
(190 degrees C) and lightly grease a 8 inch baking dish. Peel, core, and slice 2 1⁄2 cups of apples
- try to visualize a more open and accepting connection to the person you intend to share this dish with. Arrange apple slices evenly into the baking
dish – while you work, think of the individual apple slices coming together to make a perfect dish,
just as each person needs to come together to create the ideal relationship. In a separate bowl, sift one cup of all-purpose
flour, 3⁄4 of a cup of granulated sugar, 1⁄2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1⁄4 teaspoon salt. Incorporate 1⁄2 cup of softened butter by
using a fork or pastry blender until well mixed and crumbly looking. Sprinkle this mixture over the apples, and
bake in the oven for 40-45 minutes. The topping will be golden brown. Allow to cool for 10-15 minutes before serving. When we focus on the ingredients and prepare
them with intent... baking, cooking or assembling the meal becomes
a ritual. Each step sets the stage, and manifests the
magick. This is the goal of the kitchen witch! Our upcoming theme is Food by the Fire, and
is wide open to interpretation. In addition to monthly themes, we are currently
working on a cookbook fundraiser for the school. Lots of fun and a way to give back! Join the FUN in the Kitchen Witch Club. We discuss magickal and medicinal correspondences, share recipes, and encourage experimentation. Merry Part! The Magickal Book Club bumper If you enjoy to read and want to check out
books you may not have thought to pick up? Come and join The Magical Circle School&#39;s Magickal
Book Club! Currently we are reading NEVER BURN A WITCH: A Rowan Gant Investigation
(Book 2) by M.R. Sellers THEY BURN WITCHES, DON’T THEY? Take one part twisted sociopath and add a
double shot of psychosis-fueled misinterpretations of Bible scripture and prophecy, then toss in
a copy of a fifteenth-century Witch hunting manual known as the Malleus Maleficarum. Mix well. What do you get? An even more twisted sociopath who now believes he is on a divine mission
from God to single-handedly resurrect the Inquisition of medieval Europe—and he is armed with
the instructions for doing so. Set him loose on the world and he becomes
a serious problem. Set him loose in Saint Louis and he becomes
my serious problem. My name is Rowan Gant. The police call me their “Occult Practices
and Alternative Religions Consultant.” That is just their media-friendly spin on
what I really am—that being the unofficial Witch of the Major Case Squad. You see, there is a bit more to me than just
a cranium filled with arcane knowledge of religious history and the occult. I also have this unwanted affliction—I can
hear the voices of the dead. To be specific, I hear murder victims crying
out to me from the dark hereafter. The more heinous their deaths, the louder they are. Not all Witches can hear them. I’m just unlucky that way, I guess. At any rate, you can rest assured, given the
torture and murder spree this latest psycho is on, the din inside my head right now is damn near
unbearable... Our discussion of Never Burn a Witch by M.R.
Sellers will start on October 20th and our next pick will be announced October 5th Books are chosen by members of the book club
and the only rule is that it must have a Pagan, Wiccan or Witchy theme. We cover Fiction and non fiction alike! To join the Magickal Book Club contact Colleen
at ccriswelltmc@gmail.com with your Student Lounge username! Merry Meet, I am Colleen Criswell from The
Magical Circle School and welcome to my segment titled Ask A Witch, where people may write
in and ask a question that I will answer to the best of my abilities. Today&#39;s question comes from Belinda, who writes: What is the best way to send healing energy
at a distance to multiple loved ones with multiple diagnoses without wearing yourself out? Merry meet, Belinda. Well this can be tricky depending on the type
of healing you are choosing to do, the amount of people that you are trying
to heal, and how often you do it. One thing that I have learned is that a little goes a long way. Typically, when I am sending out healing,
I do it every morning at the same time. I keep a simple healing altar set up in my
kitchen on my windowsill and on it I have a candle that I light every morning
and a mug that I put the names of people I am sending out energy to. I think of each person and see them in my
mind&#39;s eye as doing well. Then I go about my day. The key is to remember, you aren&#39;t going to
cure them completely, but help the recovery along. Then every month, or whenever I feel my energy
has gotten low, I recharge it by doing a vinegar bath. I suggest listening to the Protective Magick
lecture in the Lecture Hall. Our next question comes from Andy Velez One aspect of my own journey that I would
like to work on is incorporating more physical activity and exercise. Is there a type of exercise or physical activity
that you particularly enjoy? Does this facilitate an opportunity for meditation or
other spiritual practices? Merry meet, Andy. Well I tend to struggle when it comes to being
active. I spend a lot of time at my computer desk and doing school work that
I tend to forget everything else that is going on around me. For a while I was doing well, got a fitbit
and started the Hungry Girl diet and started losing weight and inches. Then I went to the doctor and my confidence
was blown when I felt I was doing well and looking better and feeling
better. I told him I had a fit bit and he looked at
me and said “Yeah, but are you using it?” When I said I had to go out and buy a bunch
of new clothes because I have lost 2 dress sizes he actually
chuckled. Needless to say I am in the market for a new doctor. But I digress, hopefully I will get back on
track again here soon. I am planning on restarting the diet, which is only a 4 week
diet, to re-kick start that. I have a treadmill that I was doing an hour walk on every day, plus every
hour my fit bit reminds me to do 250 steps, so I was averaging a little over 10,000 steps a day. And then on top of that I was doing 45 minute
work out dvds, I am really liking the Goddess Workout,
which is a belly dance work out video. There are 4 dvds in the package and granted I have only
done the first one so far, but I enjoyed it. I also do meditate every day, I take some time for me
be it in the shower or before bed or in the morning when I am sending out healing energy to people,
I find that taking at least 5 minutes to connect spiritually helps me out a lot every day. Our third question comes from Andrew Ragan As I have been seeing there are different
ways to defeat illness. Which would you choose? Spells or homeopathic remedies, and how do you make
the determination which one would be more beneficial? Merry meet, Andrew. Well, it really depends on the illness and
what the doctors and medical professionals advise us to do. For the most part, my view is that there is
only so much we can do and only so much the professionals can do....however
if we work together maybe we can find a way to help things work better. It would be nice if there was a spell or a
herb that would completely cure us, but unfortunately the
reality is we can move towards feeling better, but illnesses and each person&#39;s body&#39;s chemistry
is different. What may work for one person may not work for another, what helps one person may
cause the opposite in another person. First and foremost, you should always talk to a medical
professional. They have the training and the understanding of the body and usually have
recommendations. Holistic medicine is a trial and error type of practice. Sometimes things can help you along, sometimes
things don&#39;t work like you had hoped and some times what the medical professional
gives you will react poorly to a holistic add on, so always ask and talk to your doctors
about it and make sure that what you are doing to help the healing forward will not be preventing
the other medications to not perform correctly. However the first thing is to understand your
diagnosis, then understand what the traditional cure is, and then look up the different possible
ways to help that cure out. Positive energy helps a bit, a good attitude and good sense of humor help
out in the healing process. But a lot of it is trial and error. I do hope that this has helped you out some. If you have a question please contact me at
ccriswelltmc@gmail.com with the subject line Ask A Witch and I will do my best to answer your
questions! Merry Meet and welcome to the deity segment
for October, I’m Steven and this month we’ll be discussing a Voodoo loa named Legba (or
Papa Legba, to His followers). Mostly followed and evoked by the followers
of Haitian and New Orlean Voodoo, this God (or, Loa, as they’re referred to) is often
viewed as an elderly black man with a cane and straw hat, often he’s thought to sprinkle
water upon the ground or, alternately, smoking a pipe. He is often accompanied by a black dog or
rooster (which is an animal often given in offering of the Loa). Legba (often referred to as Legba Ati-bon)
is often the first and last spirit invoked within the Voodoo traditional rites and rituals,
this is because of His stance as the Gatekeeping Loa. He allows the passage by loa from their world
to this and, as such, is considered a very powerful God. His ability to keep the crossroads makes Him
a trickster by nature and, with this, comes the masterful control He has over the languages
of the human species. He can communicate with anyone He chooses,
supposedly, in any language He chooses to use. He speaks frequently with the other loas and
orders them to stay where He can watch them until they are given permission to leave His
company. This being said, it often leads people to
be unable to contact the Loa for any reason as they have angered Legba. Always bare-footed, Legba is in constant contact
with the Earth and, through this, He finds power. His symbol is the Sun and He is a polite Loa,
it is these manners and His further caring nature which earns Him the title ‘Papa’,
He is considered a much loved Loa. When Legba mounts someone (this is the word
used for the time when a Loa of Voodoo will be invoked into someone) they are often said
to experience great pain due to His twisted and crippled limbs. This Loa should be honoured on November 1st,
which is All Saints Day and can be offered a rooster, or some part of it or, if this
is something unavailable, some pipe tobacco would please Him too. His colours are black, gold and rose, His
day is Tuesday, and an offering of vegetables, meats or mushrooms which have been grilled
upon open flames or a barbecue should be given in order to have Him open the portal to the
other world. My name is Steven, thank you for listening
to the Deity segment for October. Merry Part. Merry Meet and welcome to the Creature Feature
for October, my name is Freyja Mahogany and this month, we’re doing something a little
different, I thought – since it’s Samhain month and that also means Halloween, that
we’d cover something altogether outside of the norm. As we’re all aware, there are many different
poems and stories covering mystical and mythical creatures, lots of them somewhat eerie. I thought hearing a few excerpts from some
of my favourites might inspire some of you to go out and write your own, do some research
on what you hear or even just sit and enjoy the tales for what they are. I realise this isn’t the standard layout
of the Creature Feature but I’m hoping you’ll enjoy it none-the-less. We’ll start with an excerpt I remember well
from my childhood in Scotland, from the late Robert Burns’ tale “Tam O’ Shanter”. To set the scene, old Tam has had far too
much to drink and comes across this sight within Kirk Alloway, the excerpt begins as
Tam looks through one of the windows. “Warlocks and witches in a dance; 
Nae cotillion brent-new frae France,  But hornpipes, jigs strathspeys, and reels, 
Put life and mettle in their heels.  A winnock-bunker in the east, 
There sat auld Nick, in shape o&#39; beast;  A towzie tyke, black, grim, and large, 
To gie them music was his charge:  He scre&#39;d the pipes and gart them skirl, 
Till roof and rafters a&#39; did dirl.--  Coffins stood round, like open presses, 
That shaw&#39;d the dead in their last dresses;  And by some develish cantraip slight, 
Each in its cauld hand held a light.--  By which heroic Tam was able 
To note upon the haly table,  A murders&#39;s banes in gibbet-airns; 
Twa span-lang, wee, unchristen&#39;d bairns;  A thief, new-cutted frae a rape, 
Wi&#39; his last gasp his gab did gape;  Five tomahawks, wi blude red-rusted; 
Five scymitars, wi&#39; murder crusted;  A garter, which a babe had strangled; 
A knife, a father&#39;s throat had mangled,  Whom his ain son o&#39; life bereft, 
The gray hairs yet stack to the heft; Wi&#39; mair o&#39; horrible and awfu&#39;, 
Which even to name was be unlawfu&#39;.  Three lawyers&#39; tongues, turn&#39;d inside out, 
Wi&#39; lies seam&#39;d like a beggar&#39;s clout;  Three priests&#39; hearts, rotten, black as muck, 
Lay stinking, vile in every neuk. As Tammie glowr&#39;d, amaz&#39;d, and curious, 
The mirth and fun grew fast and furious;  The piper loud and louder blew; 
The dancers quick and quicker flew;  They reel&#39;d, they set, they cross&#39;d, they
cleekit,  Till ilka carlin swat and reekit, 
And coost her duddies to the wark, And linket at it in her sark!” The next poem is something I’ve read again
in childhood and it enchanted me then as much as it does now. This is “Fairy Song” by Louisa May Alcott. “The moonlight fades from flower and tree,
    And the stars dim one by one;     The tale is told, the song is sung,
    And the Fairy feast is done.     The night-wind rocks the sleeping
flowers,     And sings to them, soft and low.     The early birds erelong will wake:
    &#39;T is time for the Elves to go.     O&#39;er the sleeping earth we silently
pass,     Unseen by mortal eye,
    And send sweet dreams, as we lightly float
    Through the quiet moonlit sky;--     For the stars&#39; soft eyes alone may
see,     And the flowers alone may know,
    The feasts we hold, the tales we tell:     So &#39;t is time for the Elves to go.     From bird, and blossom, and bee,
    We learn the lessons they teach;     And seek, by kindly deeds, to win
    A loving friend in each.     And though unseen on earth we dwell,
    Sweet voices whisper low,     And gentle hearts most joyously greet
    The Elves where&#39;er they go.     When next we meet in the Fairy dell,
    May the silver moon&#39;s soft light     Shine then on faces gay as now,
    And Elfin hearts as light.     Now spread each wing, for the eastern
sky     With sunlight soon will glow.     The morning star shall light us home:
    Farewell! for the Elves must go. “
Next is something altogether more action-packed and reptilian. Siegfried Loraine Sassoon’s “The Dragon
and The Undying”. “  All night the flares go up; the Dragon
sings     And beats upon the dark with furious
wings;     And, stung to rage by his own darting
fires,     Reaches with grappling coils from
town to town;     He lusts to break the loveliness of
spires,     And hurls their martyred music toppling
down.     Yet, though the slain are homeless
as the breeze,     Vocal are they, like storm-bewilder&#39;d
seas.     Their faces are the fair, unshrouded
night,     And planets are their eyes, their
ageless dreams.     Tenderly stooping earthward from their
height,     They wander in the dusk with chanting
streams;     And they are dawn-lit trees, with
arms up-flung,     To hail the burning heavens they left
unsung. I’m going to leave you today with words
spoken by the fairy Puck himself, from William Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”. “If we shadows have offended,
Think but this and all is mended, That you have but slumber&#39;d here
While these visions did appear. And this weak and idle theme,
No more yielding but a dream, Gentles, do not reprehend:
If you pardon, we will mend. And, as I am an honest Puck,
If we have unearnéd luck Now to &#39;scape the serpent&#39;s tongue,
We will make amends ere long; Else the Puck a liar call:
So, good night unto you all. Give me your hands, if we be friends,
And Robin shall restore amends.” I have been Freyja Mahogany, this has been
your somewhat different Creature Feature for the month of October. Thank you for listening, Merry Part and Trick
or Treat! Hi Guys, welcome to another segment of the
Tarot Table. Today&#39;s letter comes from Yonu. Her mail reads: &quot;Hi Lady Dainara, I have been told that I have an older female
that has passed over who watches over me and influences me. I would like to know more about her. I&#39;d like for you to use the Native American deck. Thank you, Yonu .&quot; I hope I pronounced your name right. If not I apologize! So I have the Native american deck out, let&#39;s give that a quick shuffle....Ok Drawing
the first card we have the twins, which show a mother cradling a rabbit and watching over her adult
twin sons, Thunder and Lightning, as they play on the beach in the water and sand. The background is a double sun with each shining
its reflection on the water. There is somebody who views themself as a
mother figure watching out for y ou. Even though you are grown, as are these boys
and no longer need babying she is there to watch and whisper advice into your ear as you need
it. Notice she is cradling a rabbit. In many Native American lores the rabbit is a trickster which
encourages us to look before we leap and to carefully consider choices before action. On the other end they are also symbolic of
speed and enourage fast moment when it&#39;s needed. Next card is the Willow. In this one we see a Native American seated
cross legged underneath a willow tree. He is dressed in traditional robe and headdress
and two decorated poles are erected. The tree&#39;s branches are long and bear colorful
flowers which tells me maybe springtime or early summer. There is a circle of stones built around the
area and a hint of a bubbling brook nearby. The willow tree is a very useful tree not
only does it provide a little bit of shelter and a sense of security but it can be made into medicines
and useful products as well. That is what the woman hanging about you is serving as, in a spiritual
sense, as you look for and find your path or seek your answers. The next card I draw is water. It shows a image of a woman up to her eyes
watching the waterbug. In the background we see sea lions resting
on ice. Water is very symbolic of emotion. It also is a symbol of the hidden and unseen. The sea lion in many native american cultures represent not only protection from danger
but lucid dreaming and messages. Do you dream of this woman or get any kind of advice in your sleep? I would start paying attention to those dreams
if you do. Finally I&#39;ve drawn turkey. Here we see some native americans dancing
around a turkey with debris, feather and stones all up in the air. His eyes are closed while the Native americans
look joyful and celebratory. NAtive Americans took birds of all types as
messengers of the Great Spirit and when they appeared they have something
to teach. The Turkey specifically also represented nourishment, leadership and strength. So recapping, You wanted to know about a woman
that people say is around you. The cards didn&#39;t tell me so much about her as they did
about the purpose she has in your life right now. She is most likely an ancestor or at least someone
who has taken on a motherly role for you in teaching, guiding, protecting and helping
you find your way down your path in a healthy way. She remains very hidden but she is there and celebrates
with joy when you make good choices and show the leadership qualities you were meant
to have and when you need her she is there at your back to give you strength. God bless, Yonu. Merry Meet, Freyja here with your Reading
the Numbers segment. This month we’ll be looking at the numbers
of Destynee Myshelle Worthen. Destynee, your Life Path number is 6. The Life Path of 8 is reserved for those with
practical, down-to-Earth wants in life. It is the number of material gain and the
urge to be fulfilled financially whatever the cost, you will be frugal and careful with
money until the urge takes you, when you’ll flourish into a spending frenzy. You will often compare your material wealth
to that of those around you and feel down if you do not find your wealth exceeding theirs. Ambitious and self-confident, you have a natural
want to lead the group, rather than follow and, whilst this I often a great characteristic
that one should be proud of, it can often lead you into trouble with your boss or team
leaders. You are capable, organised, and inspirational
which should aid you in getting to the top of the ladder. Rigidity and stubbornness run in your veins
making you a difficult person to work with, and your inability to see other ways to do
things only add to this issue. You will attract financial success more than
any other number and, while this is a positive, it will often come at the cost of your friendships,
familial relationships and the health and wellbeing of others. You are ruthless in your goal-orientation
and will find great satisfaction in reaching your accumulative goals. Politics and social work would be good career
paths for you, as would something in the judicial system. Most eights (like you) have a tendency to
keep others dependant upon them for longer than is completely necessary. You can find yourself becoming isolated, seeking
conflict and unable to communicate effectively, this is due to the domineering nature of your
character. Don’t blame yourself for your faults though,
these are often as a result of your upbringing, by someone abusive, whether within the family
or outwith. Your expression number is nine, this shows
that you are artistic, personable, and a calming influence on those around you. You are a person who seeks balance and diplomacy
in all situations; this is something that people can see about you and will often latch
onto this as something they like about you; it can lead you into lots of different friendships
with lots of different people. This number also reveals that you are an artistic
person, this is something you will find is a relaxant in your life. You must be wary of people trying to throw
off your balance with mean words or energy sapping; this is something that will happen
often when people realise that you are such a pool of calming energy. You can protect yourself in many ways, one
of the best for a two like you, is that of speaking to those you love and hold dear,
you should ensure that your friends are people who want only the best for you and, though
it can be difficult to let go of those people who drag you down this is really the best
course of action. You are open-minded and willing to get in
there, get mucky, and try it out; even if it doesn’t always conclude in success, this
doesn’t often get you down though; you tend to look upon your failures as an adventure
into education, rather than a misguided attempt at something. This serves you so well as you gather knowledge
and store it from each and every experience you have. Your love and need for calm and tranquil settings
in your life can often lead to an issue in one area of your life, though… Parenting, where the firm hand is sometimes
the best approach. This is not to say that you’re a bad parent,
more that you need time to adjust to the idea that putting your foot down is something that
is essential in the parenting world. With a good sense of rhythm and great musical
talent, you possess all the skills necessary for a great musical career, though you probably
won’t pursue it for fear of rejection. Your Soul Urge is five, this is a number of
travel, new experiences and change. You like far-off places and adventures, nothing
makes you happier than running free, able to do as you please. Merry Meet and Welcome to WTMC The Magical
Circle School&#39;s Podcast. In this months Podcast we have the crafting club segment with DannielleRae,
the kitchen witch segment with DannielleRae, we will catch up with the Book Club with Colleen,
ask a witch with Colleen, the deity segment with myself Steven, the Creature Feature with
Freyja, the Tarot Table with Jen, Reading the Numbers with Freyja, we find out who won
the Spell of the Month contest with Colleen and we have the getting to know your class
segment with DannielleRae. Hi!I&#39;m DannielleRae with the Crafting Club Updates.
Current theme of the month is dream pillows and sachets, and I have personally experimented
with a couple different dried herbs and aromatics
with some success, and some failure. Kind of
amazing how the energies can be compatible, but the scents don&#39;t blend the way you think
they should.
Our upcoming theme of the month is staffs and wands... This is a tool that you can choose
already found and made all yours by personalization
and consecration, or you can start from scratch finding the raw materials yourself. While
using wood is the most common start for crafting either
the staff or wand, you may choose a material that calls to you. I&#39;ve seen blown glass,
beaded creations, even assembled and wired gemstones
that can serve as wands. The more traditional route is to opt for a
branch from a chosen tree, bush, or even matured herb
plant. The kind of source that you pick can be completely random, as in a fallen limb
from a tree that you find during a walk through the woods,
or this can be a very deliberate choice made specifically for the energies of a host tree.
Research some tree associations to find something that
is in line with your purposes, or the kind of magick that you are attracted to.
There are some different schools of thought on how to obtain the perfect piece to craft
a wand or staff. You can pick the part of a living tree
or bush and communicate your intent and your thanks
for the gift that you will cut from the tree. If you go this route, be sure you research
the best time and way to harvest your branch so that you
will inflict less damage to the host. However, other
practitioners believe that this is never a good thing to do, and you simply must wait
for the gift. The choice that you make leads you into the
next basic step of how to craft the wand or staff. Will
you strip the bark? Carve symbols or words into the wood? But, is that the next step
for you? When do you attune the wand or staff? Is this
before or during the crafting process? Is this
something that you do after you have personalized it and have had a chance to experience the
energy that resides within? This is the journey of witch crafting...and
we want to discuss this process with you. Come and
share your experiences, or maybe you will get inspired to try to craft your own wand
or staff. Join the Crafting Club and get involved with
like-minded crafters. Who knows what you&#39;ll be
inspired to try. HI, I am DannielleRae!
Welcome to the Kitchen Witch Club updates. This month in the Plant of the Month series,
we will discuss harvesting apples, and sowing spring
cabbages. The apple is such a versatile fruit, that
it can be considered the white candle of magick. Every part
of the apple can be used, and the apple tree itself produces usable magickal tools throughout
the year.
For instance, The leaves of an apple tree can be harvested at anytime, and dried like
any other herb. Apple blossoms are a five petaled bud
that reveals a striking flower, usually pink on the
outside and white on the inside. These are harvested in the spring time and can be dried
and stored for spellwork, spiritual offerings, or can
be used in teas and other edible recipes. When apple
blossoms are fertilized either by itself, as in self-pollinating varieties or the pollen
of another companion tree, the base of the bottom actually
grows to become the fruit. There are four basic groups of cultivars:
Early flowering, midseason flowering, late-season flowering and very-late-season flowering.
Here in the United States, there are more than 100
different varieties that are grown commercially, so our supermarket and produce stands seem
to always have some sort of apples available,
no matter the time of the year. Worldwide there are
more than 7500 varieties of apples, so chances are, no matter where in the world you are,
there is an apple available! The most popular varieties
include Red Delicious, Golden Delicious, Granny Smith, McIntosh, Rome Beauty, Fuji, Jonathan,
York, Gala, Idared, and Yellow Newton. Apple trees can grow from 10 to 30 feet tall,
and can easily be as wide. The tree itself may live for
more than 100 years. The older the tree the longer it takes the fruit to mature. It can
take several years for a new apple tree to bear fruit that
is acceptable – anywhere from 3-6 years depending on
the variety. It can take 100 to 200 days for the fruit to mature enough for harvest. It
can be difficult to gauge the maturity from skin
color alone. A mature apple is easily picked from the tree
and won&#39;t require being cut from it. However, the best test is to taste the apple. This
will reveal if the apple is sour, or starchy. The apples
should be firm and crisp, but the flavor needs to be right.
Once picked, the apples need to be sorted. The ones with damage or blights need to be
used or tossed right away. The saying that, “one
bad apple spoils the whole barrel” has merits. If one bad
apple is stored with the good ones, soon the whole bunch of them will turn bad. This is
actually based on the production of ethylene gases,
but we don&#39;t have to get that scientific. Simply, store
your apples in a cool dry place, sorted by size. Use larger apples first, since the smaller
will keep fresh for longer. The apples with the stems
intact will also store longer. Apples are so treasured that many cultures
have history of giving offerings to the trees themselves,
in hopes that they would have an abundant harvest in the next year. Pouring apple cider
or juice on the ground of the tree or in any of your
garden areas is done to promote the fertility of the soil.
Apples are often used in spellwork, because the apple itself, when cut width-wise reveals
a 5- pointed star.
Basic Information and Aspects for apples include Common Folk Names: such as Fruit of the Gods,
Fruit of the Uderworld, Silver Branch, The Silver
Bough, and Tree of Love Gender: is Feminine
Planet: is Venus Element: is Water
Powers: are for Love, Healing, Garden Magic, and Immortality
Magickal Uses: eat the apple for wisdom, knowledge and good health. Share eating the apple with
one that you love or in other love spells. Cut the apple, rub the pieces on your body
and bury them for localized healing. After a storm, gather
branches from apple trees to use for wands or wreaths
to promote emotional magick and the element of water.
Spring Cabbage– Sow To go along with our apples, we have spring
cabbages to sow for the upcoming colder months. Believe it or not, I was a bit skeptical on
if the harvesting chart was correct. Spring cabbages in
this time of the year? Didn&#39;t make sense. After a lot of research, there is a huge amount
of varieties available when it comes to cabbages, and you
can actually have them all year round as long as you
plan! So &#39;spring cabbage&#39; may not necessarily be the type you will be sowing this month.
I&#39;ll start with the different varieties encase you still need to choose them.
Spring Cabbages: April; Durham Early; Greensleeves; January King; Offenham 1-Myatt&#39;s;
Offenham Compacta; Pixie; and Spring Hero. Summer Cabbages: Castello; Derby Day; Hispi;
Minicole; Primo; and Quickstep. Autumn Cabbages: Autoro; Bingo; Castello;
Minnicole; Rapier and Winnigstadt. Winter Cabbages and Savoys: Best of All; Capriccio;
Celtic; Christmas; Drumhead; Duncan; Hidena; Ice Queen; January King; Novusa; Ormskirk
Late; Tundra; and Wivoy. Red Cabbages include: Kissendrup; Metro; Red
Drumhead; Red Dutch; Ruby Ball; and Vesta. So, sowing time for &#39;spring&#39; cabbage is actually
late summer, so perfect to sow now or even in the
next month. Sow them about 1 cm/ 1⁄2 inch down in the earth, with the distance between
rows 15 cm/ 6 inches and then plant the seeds 30-38
cm/ 12-15 inches apart. Basically just give them
enough room to grow! These cabbages will be harvested in the spring.
They do their best growing in open sunny places, in soils that are fertile and reasonably free
for draining. If you&#39;re growing them inside first,
then give them about 4-5 weeks until they have about four or five leaves and then move them to
their final resting place. Make sure you firm the soil around the roots once you&#39;ve moved them, this
can be done using a trowel though I&#39;m sure patting it with your hands works just as well! Water
them well and keep watering until they have become established. Don&#39;t forget to hoe regularly
and keep the weeds away. Draw up the soil around the stems for overwintering varieties and remove
any dead leaves. There are some pests and diseases to look
out for. Mainly cabbage root fly, but these can be taken care of by protecting the roots and stems
of the cabbage with a collar. The collar can be made of roof felt or similar materials. This prevents
the flies from laying their eggs. Keep and eye out for caterpillars, and flea beetles. Also slugs
and snails need to be kept an eye on. However, the worst thing to look out for is club root, which
causes the roots to swell up. If you find this, make sure you either burn the plants or destroy them
before they pass the disease onto the other cabbages. Liming helps to deter club root, as does growing
the cabbages in a different bed each year. Basic Information and Aspects for cabbages
include Gender: is Feminine Planet: is the Moon Element: is Water Powers: are for Luck Magickal Uses: Plant cabbages first thing
after a couple has gotten married in the garden of the couple, especially if they wish to have good
luck in their marriage and garden. Today we will share a simple Apple Crisp recipe.
Use this to increase loving and harmonious energy in relationships. Also helpful for
helping someone understand the emotional level of a situation. Start by preheating your oven to 375 degrees
(190 degrees C) and lightly grease a 8 inch baking dish. Peel, core, and slice 2 1⁄2 cups of apples
- try to visualize a more open and accepting connection to the person you intend to share this dish with. Arrange apple slices evenly into the baking
dish – while you work, think of the individual apple slices coming together to make a perfect dish,
just as each person needs to come together to create the ideal relationship. In a separate bowl, sift one cup of all-purpose
flour, 3⁄4 of a cup of granulated sugar, 1⁄2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1⁄4 teaspoon salt. Incorporate
1⁄2 cup of softened butter by using a fork or pastry blender until well mixed and crumbly looking. Sprinkle this mixture over the apples, and
bake in the oven for 40-45 minutes. The topping will be golden brown. Allow to cool for 10-15 minutes
before serving. When we focus on the ingredients and prepare
them with intent... baking, cooking or assembling the meal becomes
a ritual. Each step sets the stage, and manifests the
magick. This is the goal of the kitchen witch! Our upcoming theme is Food by the Fire, and
is wide open to interpretation. In addition to monthly themes, we are currently
working on a cookbook fundraiser for the school. Lots of fun and a way to give back! Join the FUN in the Kitchen Witch Club. We
discuss magickal and medicinal correspondences, share recipes, and encourage experimentation. Merry Part!
The Magickal Book Club bumper If you enjoy to read and want to check out
books you may not have thought to pick up? Come and join The Magical Circle School&#39;s Magickal
Book Club! Currently we are reading NEVER BURN A WITCH: A Rowan Gant Investigation
(Book 2) by M.R. Sellers THEY BURN WITCHES, DON’T THEY? Take one part twisted sociopath and add a
double shot of psychosis-fueled misinterpretations of Bible scripture and prophecy, then toss in
a copy of a fifteenth-century Witch hunting manual known as the Malleus Maleficarum. Mix well.
What do you get? An even more twisted sociopath who now believes he is on a divine mission
from God to single-handedly resurrect the Inquisition of medieval Europe—and he is armed with
the instructions for doing so. Set him loose on the world and he becomes
a serious problem. Set him loose in Saint Louis and he becomes
my serious problem. My name is Rowan Gant. The police call me
their “Occult Practices and Alternative Religions Consultant.” That is just their media-friendly
spin on what I really am—that being the unofficial Witch of the Major Case Squad. You see, there is a bit more to me than just
a cranium filled with arcane knowledge of religious history and the occult. I also have this unwanted
affliction—I can hear the voices of the dead. To be specific, I hear murder victims crying
out to me from the dark hereafter. The more heinous their deaths, the louder they are. Not all Witches
can hear them. I’m just unlucky that way, I guess. At any rate, you can rest assured, given the
torture and murder spree this latest psycho is on, the din inside my head right now is damn near
unbearable... Our discussion of Never Burn a Witch by M.R.
Sellers will start on October 20th and our next pick will be announced October 5th Books are chosen by members of the book club
and the only rule is that it must have a Pagan, Wiccan or Witchy theme. We cover Fiction and
non fiction alike! To join the Magickal Book Club contact Colleen
at ccriswelltmc@gmail.com with your Student Lounge username!
Merry Meet, I am Colleen Criswell from The Magical Circle School and welcome to my segment titled Ask A Witch, where people may write
in and ask a question that I will answer to the best of my abilities. Today&#39;s question comes from Belinda, who writes: What is the best way to send healing energy
at a distance to multiple loved ones with multiple diagnoses without wearing yourself out? Merry meet, Belinda. Well this can be tricky
depending on the type of healing you are choosing to do, the amount of people that you are trying
to heal, and how often you do it. One thing that I have learned is that a little goes a long way.
Typically, when I am sending out healing, I do it every morning at the same time. I keep a simple
healing altar set up in my kitchen on my windowsill and on it I have a candle that I light every morning
and a mug that I put the names of people I am sending out energy to. I think of each person
and see them in my mind&#39;s eye as doing well. Then I go about my day. The key is to remember, you
aren&#39;t going to cure them completely, but help the recovery along. Then every month, or whenever
I feel my energy has gotten low, I recharge it by doing a vinegar bath. I suggest listening
to the Protective Magick lecture in the Lecture Hall. Our next question comes from Andy Velez One aspect of my own journey that I would
like to work on is incorporating more physical activity and exercise. Is there a type of exercise
or physical activity that you particularly enjoy? Does this facilitate an opportunity for meditation or
other spiritual practices? Merry meet, Andy. Well I tend to struggle
when it comes to being active. I spend a lot of time at my computer desk and doing school work that
I tend to forget everything else that is going on around me. For a while I was doing well, got
a fitbit and started the Hungry Girl diet and started losing weight and inches. Then I went to the
doctor and my confidence was blown when I felt I was doing well and looking better and feeling
better. I told him I had a fit bit and he looked at me and said “Yeah, but are you using it?”
When I said I had to go out and buy a bunch of new clothes because I have lost 2 dress sizes he actually
chuckled. Needless to say I am in the market for a new doctor. But I digress, hopefully I will
get back on track again here soon. I am planning on restarting the diet, which is only a 4 week
diet, to re-kick start that. I have a treadmill that I was doing an hour walk on every day, plus every
hour my fit bit reminds me to do 250 steps, so I was averaging a little over 10,000 steps a day.
And then on top of that I was doing 45 minute work out dvds, I am really liking the Goddess Workout,
which is a belly dance work out video. There are 4 dvds in the package and granted I have only
done the first one so far, but I enjoyed it. I also do meditate every day, I take some time for me
be it in the shower or before bed or in the morning when I am sending out healing energy to people,
I find that taking at least 5 minutes to connect spiritually helps me out a lot every day. Our third question comes from Andrew Ragan As I have been seeing there are different
ways to defeat illness. Which would you choose? Spells or homeopathic remedies, and how do you make
the determination which one would be more beneficial? Merry meet, Andrew. Well, it really depends
on the illness and what the doctors and medical professionals advise us to do. For the most
part, my view is that there is only so much we can do and only so much the professionals can do....however
if we work together maybe we can find a way to help things work better. It would be
nice if there was a spell or a herb that would completely cure us, but unfortunately the
reality is we can move towards feeling better, but illnesses and each person&#39;s body&#39;s chemistry
is different. What may work for one person may not work for another, what helps one person may
cause the opposite in another person. First and foremost, you should always talk to a medical
professional. They have the training and the understanding of the body and usually have
recommendations. Holistic medicine is a trial and error type of practice. Sometimes things can help
you along, sometimes things don&#39;t work like you had hoped and some times what the medical professional
gives you will react poorly to a holistic add on, so always ask and talk to your doctors
about it and make sure that what you are doing to help the healing forward will not be preventing
the other medications to not perform correctly. However the first thing is to understand your
diagnosis, then understand what the traditional cure is, and then look up the different possible
ways to help that cure out. Positive energy helps a bit, a good attitude and good sense of humor help
out in the healing process. But a lot of it is trial and error. I do hope that this has helped you out some. If you have a question please contact me at
ccriswelltmc@gmail.com with the subject line Ask A Witch and I will do my best to answer your
questions! Merry Meet and welcome to the deity segment
for October, I’m Steven and this month we’ll be discussing a Voodoo loa named Legba (or
Papa Legba, to His followers). Mostly followed and evoked by the followers of Haitian and
New Orlean Voodoo, this God (or, Loa, as they’re referred to) is often viewed as an elderly
black man with a cane and straw hat, often he’s thought to sprinkle water upon the
ground or, alternately, smoking a pipe. He is often accompanied by a black dog or rooster
(which is an animal often given in offering of the Loa). Legba (often referred to as Legba
Ati-bon) is often the first and last spirit invoked within the Voodoo traditional rites
and rituals, this is because of His stance as the Gatekeeping Loa. He allows the passage
by loa from their world to this and, as such, is considered a very powerful God. His ability
to keep the crossroads makes Him a trickster by nature and, with this, comes the masterful
control He has over the languages of the human species. He can communicate with anyone He
chooses, supposedly, in any language He chooses to use. He speaks frequently with the other
loas and orders them to stay where He can watch them until they are given permission
to leave His company. This being said, it often leads people to be unable to contact
the Loa for any reason as they have angered Legba. Always bare-footed, Legba is in constant
contact with the Earth and, through this, He finds power. His symbol is the Sun and
He is a polite Loa, it is these manners and His further caring nature which earns Him
the title ‘Papa’, He is considered a much loved Loa. When Legba mounts someone (this
is the word used for the time when a Loa of Voodoo will be invoked into someone) they
are often said to experience great pain due to His twisted and crippled limbs. This Loa
should be honoured on November 1st, which is All Saints Day and can be offered a rooster,
or some part of it or, if this is something unavailable, some pipe tobacco would please
Him too. His colours are black, gold and rose, His day is Tuesday, and an offering of vegetables,
meats or mushrooms which have been grilled upon open flames or a barbecue should be given
in order to have Him open the portal to the other world.
My name is Steven, thank you for listening to the Deity segment for October. Merry Part.
Merry Meet and welcome to the Creature Feature for October, my name is Freyja Mahogany and
this month, we’re doing something a little different, I thought – since it’s Samhain
month and that also means Halloween, that we’d cover something altogether outside
of the norm. As we’re all aware, there are many different
poems and stories covering mystical and mythical creatures, lots of them somewhat eerie. I
thought hearing a few excerpts from some of my favourites might inspire some of you to
go out and write your own, do some research on what you hear or even just sit and enjoy
the tales for what they are. I realise this isn’t the standard layout
of the Creature Feature but I’m hoping you’ll enjoy it none-the-less.
We’ll start with an excerpt I remember well from my childhood in Scotland, from the late
Robert Burns’ tale “Tam O’ Shanter”. To set the scene, old Tam has had far too
much to drink and comes across this sight within Kirk Alloway, the excerpt begins as
Tam looks through one of the windows. “Warlocks and witches in a dance; 
Nae cotillion brent-new frae France,  But hornpipes, jigs strathspeys, and reels, 
Put life and mettle in their heels.  A winnock-bunker in the east, 
There sat auld Nick, in shape o&#39; beast;  A towzie tyke, black, grim, and large, 
To gie them music was his charge:  He scre&#39;d the pipes and gart them skirl, 
Till roof and rafters a&#39; did dirl.--  Coffins stood round, like open presses, 
That shaw&#39;d the dead in their last dresses;  And by some develish cantraip slight, 
Each in its cauld hand held a light.--  By which heroic Tam was able 
To note upon the haly table,  A murders&#39;s banes in gibbet-airns; 
Twa span-lang, wee, unchristen&#39;d bairns;  A thief, new-cutted frae a rape, 
Wi&#39; his last gasp his gab did gape;  Five tomahawks, wi blude red-rusted; 
Five scymitars, wi&#39; murder crusted;  A garter, which a babe had strangled; 
A knife, a father&#39;s throat had mangled,  Whom his ain son o&#39; life bereft, 
The gray hairs yet stack to the heft; Wi&#39; mair o&#39; horrible and awfu&#39;, 
Which even to name was be unlawfu&#39;.  Three lawyers&#39; tongues, turn&#39;d inside out, 
Wi&#39; lies seam&#39;d like a beggar&#39;s clout;  Three priests&#39; hearts, rotten, black as muck, 
Lay stinking, vile in every neuk. As Tammie glowr&#39;d, amaz&#39;d, and curious, 
The mirth and fun grew fast and furious;  The piper loud and louder blew; 
The dancers quick and quicker flew;  They reel&#39;d, they set, they cross&#39;d, they
cleekit,  Till ilka carlin swat and reekit, 
And coost her duddies to the wark, And linket at it in her sark!”
The next poem is something I’ve read again in childhood and it enchanted me then as much
as it does now. This is “Fairy Song” by Louisa May Alcott.
“The moonlight fades from flower and tree,     And the stars dim one by one;
    The tale is told, the song is sung,     And the Fairy feast is done.
    The night-wind rocks the sleeping flowers,
    And sings to them, soft and low.     The early birds erelong will wake:
    &#39;T is time for the Elves to go.     O&#39;er the sleeping earth we silently
pass,     Unseen by mortal eye,
    And send sweet dreams, as we lightly float
    Through the quiet moonlit sky;--     For the stars&#39; soft eyes alone may
see,     And the flowers alone may know,
    The feasts we hold, the tales we tell:     So &#39;t is time for the Elves to go.     From bird, and blossom, and bee,
    We learn the lessons they teach;     And seek, by kindly deeds, to win
    A loving friend in each.     And though unseen on earth we dwell,
    Sweet voices whisper low,     And gentle hearts most joyously greet
    The Elves where&#39;er they go.     When next we meet in the Fairy dell,
    May the silver moon&#39;s soft light     Shine then on faces gay as now,
    And Elfin hearts as light.     Now spread each wing, for the eastern
sky     With sunlight soon will glow.
    The morning star shall light us home:     Farewell! for the Elves must go. “
Next is something altogether more action-packed and reptilian. Siegfried Loraine Sassoon’s
“The Dragon and The Undying”. “  All night the flares go up; the Dragon
sings     And beats upon the dark with furious
wings;     And, stung to rage by his own darting
fires,     Reaches with grappling coils from
town to town;     He lusts to break the loveliness of
spires,     And hurls their martyred music toppling
down.     Yet, though the slain are homeless
as the breeze,     Vocal are they, like storm-bewilder&#39;d
seas.     Their faces are the fair, unshrouded
night,     And planets are their eyes, their
ageless dreams.     Tenderly stooping earthward from their
height,     They wander in the dusk with chanting
streams;     And they are dawn-lit trees, with
arms up-flung,     To hail the burning heavens they left
unsung. I’m going to leave you today with words
spoken by the fairy Puck himself, from William Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”.
“If we shadows have offended, Think but this and all is mended,
That you have but slumber&#39;d here While these visions did appear.
And this weak and idle theme, No more yielding but a dream,
Gentles, do not reprehend: If you pardon, we will mend.
And, as I am an honest Puck, If we have unearnéd luck
Now to &#39;scape the serpent&#39;s tongue, We will make amends ere long;
Else the Puck a liar call: So, good night unto you all.
Give me your hands, if we be friends, And Robin shall restore amends.”
I have been Freyja Mahogany, this has been your somewhat different Creature Feature for
the month of October. Thank you for listening, Merry Part and Trick or Treat!
Hi Guys, welcome to another segment of the Tarot Table. Today&#39;s letter comes from Yonu.
Her mail reads: &quot;Hi Lady Dainara, I have been told that I have an older female
that has passed over who watches over me and influences me. I would like to know more about
her. I&#39;d like for you to use the Native American deck. Thank you, Yonu .&quot; I hope I pronounced your name right. If not
I apologize! So I have the Native american deck out, let&#39;s give that a quick shuffle....Ok Drawing
the first card we have the twins, which show a mother cradling a rabbit and watching over her adult
twin sons, Thunder and Lightning, as they play on the beach in the water and sand. The background
is a double sun with each shining its reflection on the water. There is somebody who views
themself as a mother figure watching out for y ou. Even though you are grown, as are these boys
and no longer need babying she is there to watch and whisper advice into your ear as you need
it. Notice she is cradling a rabbit. In many Native American lores the rabbit is a trickster which
encourages us to look before we leap and to carefully consider choices before action.
On the other end they are also symbolic of speed and enourage fast moment when it&#39;s needed. Next card is the Willow. In this one we see
a Native American seated cross legged underneath a willow tree. He is dressed in traditional
robe and headdress and two decorated poles are erected. The tree&#39;s branches are long and bear colorful
flowers which tells me maybe springtime or early summer. There is a circle of stones built
around the area and a hint of a bubbling brook nearby. The willow tree is a very useful tree not
only does it provide a little bit of shelter and a sense of security but it can be made into medicines
and useful products as well. That is what the woman hanging about you is serving as, in a spiritual
sense, as you look for and find your path or seek your answers. The next card I draw is water. It shows a
image of a woman up to her eyes watching the waterbug. In the background we see sea lions
resting on ice. Water is very symbolic of emotion. It also is a symbol of the hidden and unseen.
The sea lion in many native american cultures represent not only protection from danger
but lucid dreaming and messages. Do you dream of this woman or get any kind of advice in your sleep?
I would start paying attention to those dreams if you do. Finally I&#39;ve drawn turkey. Here we see some
native americans dancing around a turkey with debris, feather and stones all up in the air.
His eyes are closed while the Native americans look joyful and celebratory. NAtive Americans took
birds of all types as messengers of the Great Spirit and when they appeared they have something
to teach. The Turkey specifically also represented nourishment, leadership and strength. So recapping, You wanted to know about a woman
that people say is around you. The cards didn&#39;t tell me so much about her as they did
about the purpose she has in your life right now. She is most likely an ancestor or at least someone
who has taken on a motherly role for you in teaching, guiding, protecting and helping
you find your way down your path in a healthy way. She remains very hidden but she is there and celebrates
with joy when you make good choices and show the leadership qualities you were meant
to have and when you need her she is there at your back to give you strength. God bless, Yonu.
Merry Meet, Freyja here with your Reading the Numbers segment. This month we’ll be
looking at the numbers of Destynee Myshelle Worthen.
Destynee, your Life Path number is 6. The Life Path of 8 is reserved for those with
practical, down-to-Earth wants in life. It is the number of material gain and the urge
to be fulfilled financially whatever the cost, you will be frugal and careful with money
until the urge takes you, when you’ll flourish into a spending frenzy. You will often compare
your material wealth to that of those around you and feel down if you do not find your
wealth exceeding theirs. Ambitious and self-confident, you have a natural want to lead the group,
rather than follow and, whilst this I often a great characteristic that one should be
proud of, it can often lead you into trouble with your boss or team leaders. You are capable,
organised, and inspirational which should aid you in getting to the top of the ladder.
Rigidity and stubbornness run in your veins making you a difficult person to work with,
and your inability to see other ways to do things only add to this issue. You will attract
financial success more than any other number and, while this is a positive, it will often
come at the cost of your friendships, familial relationships and the health and wellbeing
of others. You are ruthless in your goal-orientation and will find great satisfaction in reaching
your accumulative goals. Politics and social work would be good career paths for you, as
would something in the judicial system. Most eights (like you) have a tendency to keep
others dependant upon them for longer than is completely necessary. You can find yourself
becoming isolated, seeking conflict and unable to communicate effectively, this is due to
the domineering nature of your character. Don’t blame yourself for your faults though,
these are often as a result of your upbringing, by someone abusive, whether within the family
or outwith. Your expression number is nine, this shows that you are artistic, personable,
and a calming influence on those around you. You are a person who seeks balance and diplomacy
in all situations; this is something that people can see about you and will often latch
onto this as something they like about you; it can lead you into lots of different friendships
with lots of different people. This number also reveals that you are an artistic person,
this is something you will find is a relaxant in your life. You must be wary of people trying
to throw off your balance with mean words or energy sapping; this is something that
will happen often when people realise that you are such a pool of calming energy. You
can protect yourself in many ways, one of the best for a two like you, is that of speaking
to those you love and hold dear, you should ensure that your friends are people who want
only the best for you and, though it can be difficult to let go of those people who drag
you down this is really the best course of action. You are open-minded and willing to
get in there, get mucky, and try it out; even if it doesn’t always conclude in success,
this doesn’t often get you down though; you tend to look upon your failures as an
adventure into education, rather than a misguided attempt at something. This serves you so well
as you gather knowledge and store it from each and every experience you have. Your love
and need for calm and tranquil settings in your life can often lead to an issue in one
area of your life, though… Parenting, where the firm hand is sometimes the best approach.
This is not to say that you’re a bad parent, more that you need time to adjust to the idea
that putting your foot down is something that is essential in the parenting world. With
a good sense of rhythm and great musical talent, you possess all the skills necessary for a
great musical career, though you probably won’t pursue it for fear of rejection. Your
Soul Urge is five, this is a number of travel, new experiences and change. You like far-off
places and adventures, nothing makes you happier than running free, able to do as you please.
You can adapt to meet the requirements of any situation life throws at you and are extremely
inquisitive. You are a wordsmith and would probably do well in studying languages. Imagination
is another of your strong points. With high levels of resourcefulness, cat-like reflexes
and a clear head on your shoulders you are a great person to have around in a crisis.
If an apocalypse happened tomorrow, you’d be everyone’s first choice as a survival
buddy – feeling enjoyment at being a hero you would thrive in this situation. You flourish
in social situations where your quirky nature draws people to you who are original thinkers,
like you. You need constant stimulation and will rid yourself of any hobbies you are bored
of. Be cautious of addictions, Destynee, your sensory pleasure lights up at all the
‘bad things’ in life, ensure that your love of gambling doesn’t turn into a problem.
You have a tendency to over-promise and be irresponsible, be sure to finish tasks and
not worry about pleasing everyone – it’s never going to happen. Emotionally you are
passionate but commitment-phobic (highly unsurprising for a lover of freedom and change). Your
personal growth will come from many changes in your life where you’ll learn practically
and thrive in the variety.  Your birthday number is eleven, this shows that you are
intuitive and would make a good counsellor or healer. You have a general appreciation
of what makes people tick, an insight into the way the world works and what it is that
motivates the world to operate the way it does. Your ego becomes bruised very easily
and, though you hate to admit it, this takes you time to recover from. You can inspire
people and have an energy that excites other people, your ideas tend to revolve around
making the world a Utopian paradise, this is something that a lot of people appreciate
within you. You do not become stranded in the things which cause problems to other people,
nor do you become involved in the problems themselves, though you will guide and give
advice from a distance you see as fitting. Your nervous system is something which affects
you deeply, you should maintain a proper balanced diet to help with extracting this from your
body. You, ultimately, seek to make the world a better place.
Spell of the Month Contest October Winner/NovemberTheme A big congratulations to the winner of the
October 2016 Spell of the Month Contest The theme of the October contest was Furbabies
and we had a tie with the winning entries going to Feline Happiness by Akhana Braamber Animal Amulet by Minnie Eerin The winning entry can be viewed in the Circle
classroom located in The Welcome Center section of the school down at the bottom of the class
in the Spell of the Month Winners Circle section. It will also be featured in the school&#39;s October
Newsletter and in the 2016 Year of Ritual book! The theme for the November Spell of the Month
contest is: Divination Everyone is welcome to enter the contest!
You can write a spell, a ritual, a meditation or create a recipe ! It can be an incense or oil recipe
or a drink or food that represents the theme of the contest! For the official rules and how to submit your
entry and how to vote in the upcoming contest, please check out the Magical Circle School Student
Lounge in the Spell of the Month Contest forum located in the General Chat section of the
Student Lounge! Hi, I&#39;m DannielleRae with the About My Class
segment with Jenie Piccirillo. She is the teacher of Lycanthropy, The Vampires 1 and 2, and The
Unexplained and Interesting. Hi Jenie! Hi Dannielle! So, let&#39;s see, we&#39;re going to profile a couple
different kinds of classes, although they have sort of a common thread or theme which is very exciting.
Especially with the month of October upon us. Yeah You can talk about the classes in any order
that you like. So, I am going to start of with what is the theme of these classes? What are your classes
about? Well, the Lycanthropy is the basic beginnings
on werewolves. Okay and it goes a little bit into the origins
and how it was believed that people became werewolves, it goes into case studies and counter claims,
and how to protect yourself to avoid becoming one or how to avoid changing if you did get bitten. Oh wow. **Laughter That&#39;s very cool! Alright! Well, that is an important aspect,
I would suppose. Especially with the mythology of it, you know? Yes! So, what&#39;s next? The Vampire class goes over the different
types of vampires, and it breaks them down from culture to culture. Yeah, and it goes over the people
that have done very bad things. So bad that they were given the title of Vampire. Oh, okay...so like criminal Yes! There is Vlad the Impaler, Elizabeth
Bathory... Bathory wasn&#39;t actually a blood-sucking vampire, but she did some pretty gruesome
stuff that earned her the title. Okay..Oh wow. What about the Unexplained and Interesting? Well, the Unexplained and Interesting is a
really fun class that are about things that happened that we don&#39;t have an answer to, yet. Like the
ringing rocks in the northeast. What makes them ring? And, ball lightning, how does that happen? Right. Then there is the case of the Devil&#39;s Footprint,
where clawed footprints where all over the snow, and nobody knows how. Oh wow. They wonder what kind of creature did it! Right? Exactly, exactly. Do you cover and mythological creatures that
are of known origins? Yeah, there&#39;s sea monsters, the Jersey Devil,
Bigfoot. Different types of Bigfoots and how they differ from culture to culture. **Laughter My son loves the Bigfoot programs on tv. And,
every time we go out...we live right here at the woods, so he is...they are always looking
for “squatches” **Laughter I think it&#39;s hysterical, because I always
ask them what they are going to do if they find one. **Laughter Probably have an accident and run That is exactly right. Now, are there any requirements for taking
any of these classes? No. You just need your Hall Pass for each
of them. So, you can get right in there, as soon as
you&#39;re done with the EE. Pretty much, yeah. How exciting, &#39;cause those sound like FUN
classes. I mean, I love the mythology of those things, and this time of the year you kind of think about
those a little bit more, anyway. You know? Yeah, and all the programs that are coming
on tv help with that too! Oh, absolutely. One episode of Scooby Doo
and I&#39;m stuck! **Laughter Now, how long are the classes? The werewolf class is pretty short. If you
put your nose to the grind and really buckle down, it&#39;s probably about a day. Oh my goodness... Yeah, it&#39;s really short. So, when you say a day...it will take me,
what a month? **Laughter Maybe two days, for you. Oh, look at you. Maybe I should get that one
in there. Now what about the Vampire class? The Vampire class is a pretty long one. And,
that&#39;s actually why I broke it up into two classes. It used to be one class twenty lessons long. Oh wow I think that many people were getting frustrated
in it, and quitting at the halfway point. So, I broke it into two classes. So they could take one,
take a break and go take something else. And then they could come back to the second class,
if they want to. There is a lot of paper writing in that one. Oh, alright and the subjects are so obscure, that it really
takes some digging and researching Oh, yeah. I can imagine. I know that can get exhausting. It can be, especially if you can&#39;t find a
resource that you are looking for. Right ...sometimes in this one, you have to actually
crack open a book and not just rely on websites. Oh, I&#39;m a book person myself, anyway. I like
that primarily. Like it backs up the stuff that I find on the internet, ya know? Right What about the Unexplained and Interesting? That one is an average class Okay Probably about as long as the Correspondence
classes or any other average class that&#39;s there. Okay. Alright about 10 lessons oh wow Any projects or mostly writing? In the Vampire class, there are a couple of
projects. You are making ...for one you are making vampire wings, which actually one person made
them for her daughter t wear for trick or treating two years ago. Oh how awesome is that? What a great idea. Yeah. And, at the end you are making a trash
can vampire. Not a trash can...a trash bag vampire. Oh very cool. I was gonna say, I was thinking
of Oscar the Grouch as soon as you said that. **Laughter What do you think the most difficult assignments
are? For any of those classes? For the Vampires, it&#39;s the paper writing. Yeah? As I said previously, some of them are pretty
hard to find so I would say, just do your best. Okay, what about the Lycan class? In the Lycans, people have said that they
have had problems with some of the case scenarios Okay That is where there is four cases that I ask
you to read and I want you to tell me your opinion. What do you think? Could this be true? Do
you think it&#39;s a hoax? And, these cases are so good, that it really is hard to tell, I have gotten a
variety of opinions. Oh, wow. Well that sounds cool. That sounds ... I love shows like that, where
they profile something and you have to decide if it was a fact based thing or a total hoax. That&#39;s
wonderful I got the idea from that tv show, Fact or
Fiction. Oh, I love that show, I would love this class
I think. What about the Unexplained and Interesting?
Any real difficult assignments in there? No, there is some paper writing. But, it&#39;s
not real hard. Oh okay. It&#39;s probably the same as researching a gemstone
and writing about it. Uh oh, well, come on now.... some of us are
challenged on their research stuff Okay, what do you think are the easiest assignments
in these classes? In the Vampire classes there are a couple
movie watching assignments. Ooooo Yeah there are a few movies that I have my
students watch, and there are a few puzzles. They are basically unscramble puzzles. The reason that
I did that was to give people a break from the research. Oh that&#39;s great though. I think you are kind
of known for that. Even your online rituals, when you are doing the full moon and stuff, those are
a lot of FUN. I love how you throw in a craft or an art project in. That&#39;s a lot of fun! **Laughter Okay, so...let&#39;s see. What do you think is
in these classes that can help someone on their personal path, or maybe in everyday practices? I originally wrote them to be a fun elective,
to take a break from the big serious classes. But, even still, I think it is important to know what
is out there and what people throughout history have believed. Oh that is great point, and it sounds like
fun. I could use a break, ya know? **Laughter I have been in a lot of paper writing classes
lately, I&#39;ll say! I would love to get into one of these. Let
me hurry up and get done with one of these classes, so I can jump in! Now do you think that there is anything that
surprises your students in this classes? Or any of these classes? Do you have any special tips? Not that I have been told so far. I don&#39;t
really have any special tips, just have FUN. Very very good. Well, Jenie. I am so glad that discussed these
four classes. I think that you mentioned, not on here but earlier, that you are writing another
class that is sort of in this category. What is that, that you&#39;re writing? That&#39;s actually... I have the Angel series.
One, two, and three. Uh huh And, I am in the process, I am almost done
now, actually. I&#39;m in the process of writing a fourth one, that covers the Fallen. Oh. They are demons and nasty creatures, but what
is a demon other than a fallen angel? Okay So, I figured they would fit in there, if
you want to look at the lefter side of the spectrum. Yes!Exactly. Well, there is a lot of mythology.
And then there are a lot of experience based things... people say, oh I work with this
and I do that. I talk to this person, or I use this thing or entity. I think that would be interesting
to know, just more facts. Right Actually get in there and dig a little bit. That sounds like an excellent class. You should
...that is class number four in the Angel series. Yes, it is a little different than the other
three, because I have you actually contacting and working with these angels. And, in the fourth class
it is more of a research and information. I don&#39;t want to force anyone to work with the dark, if they
don&#39;t want to. Well, that is interesting. And, thank you. **laughter for not making that part of it, but that is
just a personal thing... everyone might be excited about it Right That sounds excellent. Can&#39;t wait to see that
one jump up n the class list, as well. Well, thank you Jenie! I am so excited that
you came and talked to me today about all of these. I think that getting in there and taking the
werewolf class... Lycan – thropy? Yep Lycanthropy class...why is that such a hard
word for me to say? Study the Lycans, is that right? No? Maybe? Right...Lycanthropy is just the werewolf part
of it. There is Therianthropy like other creatures: werefoxes, werecats, werebears... Oh my goodness, that&#39;s a real thing? I didn&#39;t
even know. Yeah I remember that movie, Wallace and Grommit
– The Curse of the Wererabbit. And I thought that was the coolest little movie. Of course, I
like that kind of thing. I didn&#39;t realize there were Were-
other things... that&#39;s kind of cool. Yes. The wolf is just one. That&#39;s the one you hear about yep, the most popular one Well, that sounds wonderful. I can&#39;t wait
to investigate a little further. So anybody who is interested in this kind of class, contact
Jenie Piccirillo, look for her classes, and the availability on the class list. And, THANK YOU JENIE! Merry Part! Thank you Danni, Merry Part!
These are your calendar dates for the month of October 2016. On Saturday the 1st, 8th,
15th, 22nd and 29th at 7pm there will be Student Run Open Chat. On Sunday the 2nd, 9th and
23rd the Success and Accountability Club will meet at 7pm. Also on the 9th and 23rd the
Kitchen Witch Club will meet at 10am. On Sunday the 16th there is a Full Moon Ritual at 8pm
with Jen Piccirillo, please arrive at least 15 minutes early and check the calendar for
full details. On Monday the 3rd, 10th, 17th, 24th and 31st at 10am there will be Student
Run Open Chats. Also on Monday the 3rd, 10th, 17th and 24th there are Open Study Halls with
Colleen at 7pm. On Tuesday the 4th and 18th at 3pm there are Student Run Study Groups.
On Tuesday the 11th and 25th the LGBTQ Network Group will meet at 3pm. Also on Tuesday the
18th the Newsletter Staff Meeting will take place at 7pm, please ensure you are on time
as this meeting should only take 15 minutes. On Wednesday the 5th, 12th, 19th and 25th
the Witchy Weight Loss Club will meet at 10am. On Thursday the 6th, 13th, 20th and 27th there
are Open Study Halls with Minnie at 10am. On Friday the 21st The Podcast recording meeting
starts at 10am please ensure you are on time and ready to record. Also on Friday the 21st
the Book of Shadows Exchange Club will meet at 9pm. As always all times are server time
which is Eastern Standard Time. Needing items for class? Running low on your
incense or oil supply? Looking for new tools for your magickal workings? Look no further
than The Magical Circle School Bookstore! We have thousands of items to help you keep
your witch&#39;s cabinet full! We also have special sets and class packs for different classes
at The Magical Circle School! If you order complete sets or class packs you will find
amazing savings! Anywhere from 30% to 50% off the regular retail price!
We also ship all over the world! So stop on in and by purchasing through the school store
25% of all sales go directly to the school! To get to the school&#39;s bookstore go to The
Welcome Center section of the school and enter into the room The Gift Shop and Book Store
or go directly to the store http://www.themagicalcircle.net/storenew/ Want to show your school spirit? Check out
the school&#39;s gift shop! You can access it through the school&#39;s Gift Shop and Bookstore
classroom located in The Welcome Center section of the school! Or you can go directly there
using the link http://www.cafepress.com/magicalcircle You can buy t-shirts, hats, jewelery, bags,
mugs and a whole lot more! For every sale at the Gift shop the school earns $2
So go help out the school and show your school pride! The Magical Circle School Newsletter for October
2016 is now available for purchase! Our October 2016 Theme was Making Sacrifices!
In the October 2016 Newsletter we have: Alchemical Visage Alterations by Lena Berry,
On Personal Sacrifice by Bell Dragonfly, Powerful Pebbles by Skyla NightOwl Club Notes from
Book of Shadows Exchange, Kitchen Witch Club, Magickal Book Club, Photography Club, Success
and Accountability Club, Witch Crafting Club Witchy Weight Loss. The October Full Moon
Ritual by Jenifer Piccirillo Samhain Ritual by Colleen Criswell Spell of the Month Contest:
Furbabies The Magical Circle School Class Graduates August – September 2016 The newsletter is available in print at our
Lulu store for: $7.95 It is also available for Kindle at our Amazon
store for: $4.95 Check the main page of the school for ordering
details! If you would like to be in print, join the
school&#39;s newsletter staff! To do so simply contact Colleen at
ccriswelltmc@gmail.com with your Student Lounge username and she will get you set up! All
students are welcome to join! The theme for November’s Newsletter has
been announced as Mysteries of Magick Now available for purchase, The Magical Circle
School&#39;s Year of Ritual 2015. In the Year of Ritual 2015 book we have 41 rituals and
spells from The Magical Circle School 2015 school year! This collection includes: 13 Full Moon Rituals
by Colleen Criswell, Minnie Eerin, Savanna Moon and Megan Sutton
8 Sabbat Rituals by Colleen Criswell and Savanna Moon
3 Student Rituals by Megan Nevins, Terria S., Danielle Somes
17 Spell of the Month Contest Winners by Lena Berry, Sherry Cooper, Silver Corona ,Minnie
Eerin ,Susan Morris, Skyla NightOwl ,Cat Ravenscall ,Danielle Somes, Luna Starfire and Teri Stich The print copy can be found at our Lulu store
for $19.95 Or you can purchase a digital copy at Amazon
in the Kindle store for $9.95 Check the main page of the school for links
to order! 