Hello everybody and welcome to this lesson
in the Pioneer School Extra about casting out demons. Last time I laid the
foundation where we spoke about how Jesus drove out demons and the 12 and
the 70 and now it is for everyone who believes and these signs will follow those who believe.
In my name they shall cast out demons. This time I am going to
build on this and do it a little more practical. We are going to look at some
examples of book of Acts 8 where you read about Philip in Samaria. How Philip
came to Samaria and unclean spirits cried out with a loud voice and came out
of people and lame people were healed and were walking. We believe Jesus is the
same yesterday and today and this is what we should experience today. And I&#39;m going
in this program to show a lot of clips. This is one clip from Hannover in Germany
a few days ago where you see this. This woman came to me and the demon
started to scream and look what happened, And then she could walk without
crutches, she came with crutches, and now you see she walks (clapping and
applause) and a big joy came to the city as we read in the book of Acts 8. We are
looking at the book of Acts 19, about different things and then we are trying to
put it all together how when it is casting out demons, how it is renewing the
mind and how it is all about LOVE. Because the love of God can really set us
free and I am using my own example how God had set me free, and use other
examples and then I ended up praying for you out there who need freedom, who need deliverance.
So welcome to this lesson about casting out demons.
God bless you. Yes, Hello everybody
we are back again, with a new lesson about casting out demons.
Last time I went through some of the things you see here behind me about
what Jesus did, how He cast out demons, how He called the 12 to do it, how the
70 did it and now it is for everyone who believes. And also we spoke about last
time there was religious people who came with different things saying this is not
for today and we should be careful and so on and so on. In this lesson I am going
to be a little more practical, I am going to continue where I ended. But be a little
more practical. How does this work?, how does it work with casting out demons with
renewing the mind, with using the gospel? So if you have not seen the last lesson I
encourage you to start with that because it will give you an overview of what I am
going to talk about now. I am also going to show you some exciting videos in this
lesson about where you see how demons are leaving and what it looks like. The
whole idea is that you will experience freedom and that you out there, you will
go out and cast out demons, because this is what we are called for. So it is
going to be really interesting I have really looked forward to this. I will
just start with pray, “God thank you for everything you are doing. Thank you
Jesus for you have given us authority to go out and cast out demons and heal the sick.
You have called us to preach the gospel. I pray that you will come and use
this lesson to open our eyes and our ears and help us to set us free so we can live
in the power, live the life you have for us. Come with your Holy Spirit and help
me to share what you want me to share. In the name of Jesus. Amen. Ok, cast
out demons, first I want to share some testimonies because a lot of things
are happening right now. Actually I just got told today that I am going to be on
Danish TV, the biggest TV show in Denmark in a few days. Monday evening. Monday
evening I will be live on TV in Denmark, on the biggest TV station at 7 o&#39;clock,
where I will talk about casting out demons because later on Monday evening at 8;30
on TV 2 in Denmark they are airing a program and I am part of it. And in that
program it is also about casting out demons. Because a few months ago there
came a host to me who followed me out on the street who wanted to see how we
were doing out on the street when it came to praying for people and when it came
to actual deliverance and casting out of demons. Because this is something
people are talking about today, about What is it? It is weird for people, is
it really demons today and what does it look like when people are set free?
So Monday evening live tv programme and Monday evening later I am going to
be on this programme, they are going to send this programme with me. I just want
to share a clip from the live programme, this is going to be on Danish tv, this is
a clip that is going to be sent where you see me out on the street a few months
ago where we stood out on the street and there was a woman there who looked
at us and I asked can we pray for you? and she said yes and she came to us and I
asked her what her problem was and her problem was she had asthma and she had
been operated two times on her heart, so she had been shocked (electrical shock) in
her heart two times through her operation and I prayed for her and what you are
going to see in this clip is the way I often pray for people is, I hold their
hands and get them to relax and then And then I pray, lead them to a pray and
pray for God to come and set them free. Sometimes we see healing where it just
like, healing happens other times we see a demon manifested like a deliverance is
taking place and what you see hear is the way she reacts, you can see she
started to go back and she started to react. And you can see in this way it
is clear to see that there is something demonic, so I will just show it, it is in
Danish but I will try to translate what they are saying “Go now….go now”. And
you can see she is reacting, she is going backwards and something is
happening, I don’t close my eyes, I look really close to their eyes and
see what is happening, and (video) something left there, I felt, and then I
prayed for the Holy Spirit to come over her I said “You can feel something?” (woman)
“Yea, I went back, what was that?” (woman) “I don’t know what it was?” (Torben)
And I said “Yes, something reacted in you it was fear and something left
you, try to breathe again look ather now (video) (woman) “Wow, it is so different
from before” (Torben) “Try again, can you feel it is gone?” (woman) “Where do I find you in some months?” (Torben)
“It is easy, it is about Jesus, it is not about me” So this is a small clip that is going
to be part of our programme in Denmark. We are called to cast out demons,
we should not be afraid of it, we should not be afraid of it doing it in
public, we should not be afraid of doing it on tv, we should not be afraid
of doing it out on the street. There has often been a lot of fear in the
church when it comes to the demonic, but you see in the bible that they did
not hide it away, they did not take the demonic and say ‘wow’ it is a demon we
have to be careful, we have to put it in, close a door inside a room where nobody
saw it, ‘no’ in the bible we see that it happened publicly, out there and
we have got authority not only to heal the sick but also to cast out demons.
With that woman, when I prayed for her I thought it was a healing needed but as
soon as I prayed the Holy Spirit came over her and the demon started to
manifest and she got set free. And this is now going to come out to
many people and I am going to have to change to be on a live programme and
tell more about what God is doing. First we are going to experience many
religious people and non -believers and people who don’t believe in what we are
doing but we are also going to meet many people who actually believe in it. When
we talk about the religious people, last time we saw some of the things they
were saying to try to create fear in us when it comes to casting out demons and
one of the examples has been used a lot to create fear in us who believe to say
that it is dangerous we should not cast out demons, it is from Acts 19. Acts
19 verse 13 we read that there were ‘Seven sons of Sceva, and we read here
in Acts 19;13 that there was some Jewish exorcists who took upon themselves to call
the name of the Lord Jesus over those who were demon possessed, and we read
there what happened, and what happened? the demon answered “Jesus I know and
Paul I know about, but who are you?” and then the man with the demon leapt on them,
hit them, took their clothes off so those seven sons ran away naked. Maybe
you have heard that story in church? I have heard it a few times, and I often
heard it as an example to ‘be careful, be careful, be careful, here was somebody
who tried to use the name of Jesus but they were new in it, they didn’t have the
experience therefore the guy with the demon leapt on them and hit them so they
needed to flee naked from that place. Maybe you have heard that also as an
example to be scared and be afraid when it comes to casting out demons, but this
is not talking about somebody who is born again, this is not talking about
seven sons of sceva who have the Holy Spirit and who believe in Jesus,
this is talking about somebody who does not have the Spirit inside
of them, who do not know Jesus. And we know that for sure by reading the
text in context, every time you read a text always read it in context. Try
to read what is written before and what is written after the text because
when you see what is written before and after this text you will
understand what it is all about. After this text where we read that the
seven sons run away naked we read this ‘When this’ you know ‘this’ the news of
the seven sons became known to the Jews and Greeks living in Ephesus they were
all seized with fear and the name of the Lord Jesus was held in high honour. So
what is happening here? ‘here we have a man with a demon who leapt upon seven
people who tried to cast out the demon and they fled away naked. The next
thing that happened was a big fear came upon the people and they
worshipped Jesus, they worshipped God. It doesn’t make sense, why would they
worship God, why would they lift up the name of Jesus and worship Jesus when a
demon had just leapt on seven people and took their clothes off them so they needed to flee?
It would not make sense if a born again Christian today came in and
tried to cast out a demon and that demon leapt on the and beat them so they need
to run away and people in the church hear that they would not say ‘thank you
Jesus you are so amazing, your name is glorified, and so amazing, ‘no’. Why
did they worship God? because they knew that those people were not believers,
they were not born again and they worshipped God because of what happened before that,
because a few words before, that we read this ‘God did extraordinary miracles
through Paul, so even the handkerchiefs and aprons that had touched
him were taken to those who were ill and the illness was cured and the demons,
the evil spirits left them Acts 19:11. So what do? We read here a verse before?
We read that God did amazing miracles through Paul, the took some of the clothes
he wore that had touched him, they took the clothes, went to people who people who
were sick, went to people who had demons and as soon as they laid their clothes on
them, the demon left them, and then what happened? Those seven sons who were
exorcists, who tried to cast out demons but did not know Jesus, they saw the
miracles by the hands of Paul so they went out and tried to cast the demon out in
the name of Jesus who Paul knew, and the demon leapt on them and people saw
the difference between those new age alternative, non beleivers who tried to
cast out demons and then the real true life Paul, and then what was the result
of that the name of Jesus was lifted up and many came and openly confessed
what they had done and a number who had practiced sorcery and brought
brought their scrolls together and burned it properly Acts 19:18. So
here we see the full story, the full story is ‘not’ that we should be afraid
of casting out demons because this is not born again beleivers. The full story
is that by the name of Jesus we have authority and people saw the power
through the hands of Paul, then there were some people who practiced sorcery who
tried to use the name of Jesus but it did not work good, and people there saw
the difference between those people who practiced sorcery and the real life,
(change ‘life to believer?) and what happened, many of them came afterward
and confessed what they had done and brought their things and burned them in
public ‘why work with sorcery when we have the real thing? Why work with false
gods when we have the name of Jesus? When Jesus is alive. And this
is the same we are seeing today when we are starting to see the power of
God how the Holy Spirit is working, people bring their things and burn it in public,
people bring their things and destroy them, they don’t want anything to do with
sorcery anymore and that is what we saw in Germany a few weeks ago. We were in
Berlin a few weeks ago where we visited a family, it was the second time we were
there and we saw the second time we were there a demon came out of people.
There came new people and they got set free from demons, they fell on the floor
and the demon left them and people got healed and set free. And that
family also had a lot of things like we read here in Acts 19, with
sorcery and things they had been using so they gathered all of those things
they had into the garden and you can see (camera image) there is a lot of idols
here that they had, what did they do? They destroyed it all. This is the before
and after picture. like this, and then they destroyed it.
Why? Because they saw the real life, They saw what it&#39;s all about and This is what we need to do today,
we need to see the power of God. we should not be afraid to
cast out demons because like here Paul did it out there on the
street publicly there were people where demons left them, there were people who
saw it and they tried to do the same but they couldn’t because there is only power
in the name of Jesus and the result of that was that many repented, why?
Because people want the real stuff. Ok, we see Jesus drove out demons, he
called the 12 to do it, the 70, now it is for everyone who believes, it is for
you and me and I want to come with an example more from the bible the
book of Acts and this is with Philip, the book of Acts chapter 8, we read this
about Philip, he proclaimed Christ to them and we need to do the same
proclaim Christ, but we know the kingdom of God is not words only it is
power so proclaim Christ the crowds with one accord paid attention to what
was being said by Philip ‘why?’ because they saw and when they heard him
and saw the signs that he did. I put it down here. Don&#39;t know if people can see it.
But this is what we read here. these signs follow those
who believe ‘in my name they shall cast out demons, they
shall lay there hands on the sick and they shall get healed ‘this was a
sign as I spoke about last time that followed those people who believe.
And what do we see? Philip he went out and people listened
in one accord to what he said. ‘why? When they saw the signs he did,
and Philip was not one of 12. He was not one of the 70, Philip was
a guy who was filled with the Spirit like you and me should be.
What was the sign they saw? ‘For unclean spirits crying out with
a loud voice came out of many who had them, and many who were paralysed
and lame were healed, so there was much joy in the city Acts 8:7. This is what
we read with Philip, that Philip came to Samaria and these signs follow those who
believe so people listened to Philip, he did not speak like a Pharisee, he did
not just speak with words but you saw the Holy Spirit. You saw how
the Spirit of God moved through Philip, they listened and saw
the signs, what signs? Those signs that follow those who believe? That many
with unclean spirits got set free and many lame were healed and we see
here that they came out with a loud voice, this is often what happened.
Do we truly believe? ‘as I have said before in the 20 lessons, do we truly
believe that Jesus is the same yesterday, today and forever? If you said yes then
you also believe that the Holy Spirit is the same yesterday, today and for ever,
and the book of Acts is not about the first 12 apostles, it is a book where you
get a look into the diary of the early church. As I say I think in lesson ‘Three’
(The book of Acts) in the Pioneer School. So the book of Acts gives us a
picture of how the early church was working and if the Holy Spirit is the
same, we should be the same today, we should not just go out and heal the
sick we should also go out and cast out demons. And sometimes it is quiet, and
sometimes it is with a big loud voice and sometimes lame people walk and people
are getting healed and this is our desire to see the same and we saw it
almost a little picture of this a few weeks ago we were in Hannover in
Germany and I want you to see this video it is really amazing. We
were doing an open air in Germany and in this open air a woman came to me,
there was 700 people at the open air and a woman came and before I even started
to pray for her she started to manifest and what you see here you don’t see so
clear in the picture but she came with a cane, she was walking with a crutch and
she had a problem walking so she came and when she came you almost see like
Philip here that the demons came out with a loud voice and the lame could walk.
So this is from Hannover (video) it is only 30 seconds and try
to listen to what the demon was saying here “because I don’t want to go!”
and you hear it are you ready, (Torben) in the name of Jesus….
(demon) ‘oh!…’oh!…oh! … (demon)’I will not go’ …I will
not go!” you are too strong. (Torben) “be quiet!” be quiet!”
“Come out!” “come out!” (demon) “I am going!….I am going! I am
going, I’m going I am going..….Ahh….. (Torben) “Come out!” I command
you “let her go!” come out!” (Torben) “Hi, come up…..try to walk,
how is it now…(clapping and cheering) (woman) Walking without crutches,
(more clapping and cheering) Hallelujah! and here you see a picture,
a picture of the book of Acts 8 like Philip in Samaria, we were just in
Hannover in Germany out there in public a woman came with a cane, a
problem walking but what happened the demon was screaming ‘ahh! And
started to manifest but by the name of Jesus, by the authority
that demon went out. And I want to say when I do this teaching
I don’t want to go into a lot of details, people ask sometimes, ‘o where do demons come from?
‘I need to know’ and how do they look?.... and so on and so on… To
be honest I don’t care how demons look, I think there is a reason we don’t see
them because if we saw them I think we maybe be scared. I just
know one thing, Jesus has commanded me to cast out demons, and
I love Jesus I want to obey him and we need authority. And sometimes the
more you know about the details the more difficult it is to believe. For
example if you pray for somebody with a broken arm, if you in your head
start to imagine now those bones go together and how with those sinues and
bones go together when I am praying, does it look like this? The more you
try to imagine with your head the more difficulty it will be to believe it. But
if you just accept it like this is the truth, I don’t want to understand it,
I don’t want to know exactly how and how it looks, I just love Jesus and do
it, then you will see a breakthrough and you see it here with demons, we cast
demons out every week, and sometimes becomes stronger and stronger and we
have seen amazing clips and amazing things where people get set free, and I
come down to the simple stuff again. In Matthew 17 you read that there was a
guy who had a son who had a demon and they brought that son to Jesus disciples
and Jesus disciples could not cast out that demon, when Jesus came he rebuked the
disciples for their lack of faith and set that boy free. And then he told them
later that kind is only driven out by prayer and fasting, we are not talking
about that special kind of demons, ‘no’ we are talking about that unbelief’
that spirit of unbelief that was in the disciples Because you
don’t have to go through praying and fasting to cast out special
demons, demons are all the same, we have all the authority in heaven and
earth to cast them out cast out demons. Our problem is our lack of faith, our
unbelief, and sometimes there we need to pray and fast for us to be set free
from that unbelief that lack of faith. And when that is gone in our life, then
we have authority, so the more I see the fruits of what the Pioneer School
does and the teaching and what we see is’ the more it comes down to is ‘that
simple, simple faith, you don’t need to know a lot of details, you just need
to take authority and then do it. Know that Jesus died on the cross, he
has the victory, he rose up again, he went to heaven and he sent his holy
spirit down here. now it is you and me who are sent here in Christ place
as his body to continue the good work. He has all the authority in heaven and
earth and he has given that to us so we can now go out in the name of Jesus
to cast out demons, heal the sick and proclaim the kingdom of God, and it is
that simple faith, I hope this teaching will give to you. A question?
can Christians have demons? This is always something people ask ‘can
Christians have demons? It is interesting, if you go to the bible in Luke and see
in Luke the first demon Jesus cast out, it was in the synagogue, it was actually
in the synagogue he cast out the first demon ‘in the church’. So he came to
the synagogue and there a man with an unclean demon started to manifest and
he cast it out. The same we see today there are people in church who
start to manifest who have demons. When people say ‘Christians can’t have
demons I think ‘people don’t know what demons are causing and what a demon is,
without going into a lot of details here in Luke chapter 11 as I spoke about last
time you read that Jesus cast out a demon that was mute and when that demon that was
mute had come out of that person the mute man spoke and everybody was amazed, so
here there came a guy to Jesus who could not speak, he had a sickness, his sickness
was that he was mute, he could not speak. His sickness was caused by a demon, a
mute demon so when Jesus cast out that mute demon, when that demon was out of
him that man who was before mute could now speak, he was healed. So in
this case you see that this demon was a demon that caused him to not speak.
There are other demons where people have sickness that is caused by
demons, it could be deafness, mute, Jesus healed a blind guy by casting out
a demon and the blind guy could see, so in his case it was a demon that caused
that sickness, I don’t say it is the same every time because you also read that
Jesus healed the sick where it was not a demon he cast out he just ‘the blind’
where it was not a demon he just laid hands on the blind person
and they could see. But imagine that this is that demon and
this demon is a mute demon and I am a non-believer and I have a mute demon in
me so I cannot speak or I have a blind demon I cannot see or have a demon, an
unclean spirit in me or I have a demon that causes me to be paralysed or other things.
What happens if we believe that Christians cannot have demons? then we
believe in that second that somebody becomes a Christian born again, that
demon is out of there and therefore they are healed. But do we see this?
Do we see this in the church today that when people enter into
Christ, when they come to Christ right away that sickness has left? In
many places we don’t see that, I think it should be like that, we see it
more and more when people get baptised to Christ right away those demons are
leaving and they are getting healed they are getting set free so we see
it more and more and more. I just shared a testimony with 37 people
who got baptised a few days ago with somebody I spoke with from Italy and
they got convinced and they had people who had an eating disorder and sickness,
when they came out of the water they got set free and they got healed. So we
see it more and more, but it is not something we normally see or have been
seeing in the church. Because in the church today we see many sick people
therefore we also see many sick people who have demons, we see many believers
who have demons. If you ask me if a Christian have demons? yes. Should it be like that?
No. I believe that in the early church they taught a different gospel from
what we heard today, a radical gospel about repentance and denying yourself
and turning away from your sin and then when they got baptised in water to Jesus
Christ it’s not just a symbol, it was radical I die with Christ I rise up with
Christ and in that there is deliverance taking place and then they received the
Holy Spirit and they start a new life. I believe it was what they saw, or like
the book of Acts 8 where Philip came to Samaria and the demons already left
and people already got healed so when they later got baptised in water those
demons were already gone and the sick were already healed so therefore yes they
did not see a lot of Christians with a lot of demons. But today
we have a church where many people inside church are not born again.
They are not fully born again, they have not understood what repentance is,
about baptism in water, about the Holy Spirit, so do I believe Christians
should have demons ‘no’ I don’t believe Christians should get divorced and
remarried and so on again and again, I don’t believe Christians should live in sin.
I do not believe Christians should go after being rich and living their own
life, no’ I do not believe that Christians should do this and this and this but we
are living in a time where we see many people inside church who call themselves
Christians and some of those need deliverance. But what do we then do when
there is a demon?, how do we cast out that demon? What I normally do is,
sometimes it comes automatically, sometimes you go to somebody and you start
to talk and right away you just see there is a demon or you start to pray and
they start to manifest and you see there is a demon, so when you see there is a
demon you just cast out that demon, other times we don’t know if there is a
demon or not and I will talk about that. First I want to show a clip here, this
was from a few days ago here in Aalborg where we are, where we had a kick-start.
A few days ago when we had a kick-start I took people up to demonstrate how
to pray for people as we often to and demonstrate how to talk to people and I
took a few people up and I stood with a woman and I explained when you go to
somebody you stop and smile and you relax, you don’t do like this ‘aaahhh’
you just very nicely smile’ and go to them and say ‘hey, excuse me can I talk to you?
‘hey can I ask you a question? Are you sick? Can we pray for you? So
this is what I wanted to demonstrate. But what happened here ‘we see it more
and more is when I came to her and said “hey, excuse me” I didn’t have time to say
more because as soon as I came close to her and said “excuse me” everyone saw
it was a demon because she started to scream and fell down and the demon was
manifesting and this woman there in front of everybody got set free from a demon and
I want to show a clip here. Are you ready? So it’s not a good quality but here I am.
(Torben points to the clip on the phone) and here you can see this woman there is
the woman I go to, to demonstrate how to stop people and say excuse me can I
pray for you but this is what happened (video sound…”Excuse me can…..
(woman starts to scream and falls to floor ‘screams!) (Torben) ok
it’s not always like that’ ‘come out! Go, go, go,
go!… (woman)Screaming…. (Torben) Go! Go! Go! …go right now in the
name of Jesus! I command this spirit leave (woman)screaming…making different
sounds (Torben) Come out!! And there, there was some false tongues
and different things then it left, yea. So that was a little clip, but in this
case what happened here, we go to somebody and as soon as we stop, as soon
as we talk with them something is reacting I would say the more we live with Jesus
the closer we come into him and the more authority we recognise the authority we
have, the more we will see this, the more we will see the demons manifest before we
come to them, as soon as we talk to them. And we have lots of stories where people
come here to us and feel the manifestation and things reacting already, so this
is what sometimes happens, what often happens is that we are not sure if the
person has a demon and there what we do is start to talk with them and
when I meet a person I have a video here I want to show it was from New Zealand
where there came a guy and when I spoke to him he said that he had a problem with
the Holy Spirit, he had a lot of fear and it was not easy for him to pray in tongues
and he was really afraid because he came from a very, very, religious background
and he felt there was something in him that reacted against this freedom
and against the Holy Spirit. So by talking with him and hearing what
he said I can then say ‘ok I don’t think this is just a renewing of the mind, and
I think it’s not just a question of the gospel here I think actually here (cast
out demons) it is something demonic. So what do I do? I take his hands and
pray with him and then I lead him to a prayer this is often what I where he also
at the same time repent of that wrong thought and religious spirit and when we
do that, we just commanded that spirit to go, often even before we see a
manifestation and I encourage you to try that ‘pray for them and then say “spirit
come out!” “go! Go! Religious spirit I command you, I command you religious
spirit” ….like Jesus, he said there that ‘this man he had a problem and the
problem was he was mute so he called the mute spirit to go. If I meet somebody
who says I have a problem with depression, I often say “you spirit of depression go
right now!” if there is a problem with fear “you spirit of fear go right now!”
if they have a problem with sickness and moving around in the body “you
spirit of sickness go right now!” This guy he had a problem with a religious
spirit and fear and other things and I say “you religious spirit, you spirit of fear
I command you to leave right now!” and when you do that and speak, speak, speak,
speak, what happens often is that when you take authority and start to
speak to that issue, that demon, they start to react. And I said last time
sometimes the reaction is ‘exhale’ just a breath and the demon is out. Other
times it is a little more like you see in this video here (video clip) (T)
“Go out now in the name of Jesus!” “I command last thing go!”
“spirit go!” “go! Go! Go! As you can see I just take authority
and command it to go, (T) “come out!” (man) loud groaning! (T) “go!” (man)
“I just felt that something has been lifted and I felt free, I felt the peace
of God again, I felt that ‘yea Lord… I thank you, I thank you
for setting me free. So again here, here is an example where
you saw and there are so many videos with that and in our movie on YouTube, I
encourage you to just see some of the videos, so what do we do? Sometimes
demons just manifest and when you see the demon you just say ‘come out in the
name of Jesus. You don’t have to know why the demon is there? You don’t have
to know how many, you don’t have to make it complicated. There are a lot of videos
on YouTube where people do weird things. To be honest, where people are talking
with the demon and interviewing the demon, I don’t see that. I don’t see that
in the bible and actually I don’t like it When demons are speaking, Jesus spoke back
to them, but very often He said ‘shut up! …he said “be quiet! Come out now!” He
did not go in with a dialogue to ask ‘demon why are you there? Are
you allowed to be there? And what has that person done? He
didn’t go into a lot of things. He just said “be quiet come out now!”
One time he asked “how many are you?” and then he heard how many there was and
he cast every one of them out at the same time, but he never went into go in a dialogue.
And I think the problem today is that we cannot trust demons, demons are liars.
It was different when Jesus asked how many are you? because Jesus was the
son of God, he knew the truth, he knows everything you cannot lie to Jesus but you
can lie to us, because we don’t know the whole truth, Jesus knows the truth,
he is the truth, we are not. So I have seen a video on utube where
people are teaching about the spirits around where they are into ‘you demon
why did you come and where do you come from and so on and so on and so on, I don’t
like that because I don’t trust what those demons are saying first thing, another
thing, if we take and start to interview and talk with the demon we forget that there
is a person behind that deliverance and that person, it is a big thing for them
to experience the demon is speaking through them. I have met people who
have went through a deliverance where they interviewed the demon almost and
spoke with the demon and made it become a long, long, long deliverance and yes
maybe that person got set free in the end but that person now has a lot of problems
with fear afterwards because to experience demons taking over and speaking through
your body is not a good experience for that person so therefore I believe we should
do it fast and quick, not go through a lot of things, Just take the authority and so on.
People ask me sometimes why do I shout? Sometimes I shout because sometimes I
don’t want the people to hear the demon, the demon is shouting so I shout louder or
other times I shout because to be honest sometimes I don’t want to listen to my
fear, I can have a little fear sometimes and I don’t want to listen to it so
therefore I shout I take authority. I know I am not heard because of my loud voice
but if a dog is coming inside and really dirty you would not say ‘dog…can you
go out please….the dog would not obey But when you say, “come out now! Go out!”
the dog knows that you really mean it, the same way with the demons, if you just…
demons go..out…the demons don’t listen but if you say “demon come out!” but you
don’t have to scream, you can say it in a way with authority so that the
demon know that they have to go. Before I go there, other question people
ask is what about the return of the unclean spirit that we read about in Matthew 12?
That when Jesus said if a demon has come out of somebody ‘an
unclean spirit’ they will go around and if that house is empty they will come back
with 7 other demons and people sometimes use this example to say you are not
allowed to cast demons out of non- believers or they need to have the Holy
Spirit otherwise those demons will come back. First thing, when Jesus said
that in Matthew 12 he did not say it as a teaching how to cast out demons, he did
not say it to somebody who had just got set free from a demon, he just said it as
a truth, this is what sometimes happens, but we see again and again they set many,
many people free from demons and they never used that verse to those people
who are set free, we don’t see it. Another thing, if Jesus is saying there
that when a demon has come out of people, if people are not filled with the
Holy Spirit that demon will come back, remember that none of those people Jesus
cast the demons from could receive the Holy Spirit, no one, no one, because there
was no Holy Spirit given on earth at that time Jesus was walking here. So when
he cast out a demon some of those people should wait maybe three years
before they were able to receive the Holy Spirit. So it did not hinder Jesus
in casting out those demons knowing that those people could not receive the Holy
Spirit and maybe will not receive the Holy Spirit. The same this verse should
not hinder us in just going out to cast out demons but yes we believe that if
you first are set free and go back it can be worse but this is not only with
demons he is talking about sin, he is talking about sickness, he is talking
about everything because in John 5:14 we read that Jesus healed a guy who
was paralysed, he had been paralysed for 39 years and he just healed that guy
who was paralysed. Jesus did not say anything to him he just healed him.
Later on he met him in the temple and when he met him again he said “See
you are ‘well, go and sin no more so nothing worse may happen to you.
So here Jesus said to someone who was paralysed who got healed “go sin no more
so nothing worse will happen to you. What we are called to do is to heal the
sick, to cast out demons, sometimes you felt that after they have got set free
that maybe you should say to them “hey…you have to stop sinning now,
you have to turn away from your life style otherwise it is going to be worse”.
Sometimes you feel you should say, sometimes you feel you should not
say it like we read in the bible. So lets’ put it all together, we have
now spoke about how Jesus drove out demons, the 12 did it, the 70 did it and
these signs follow those who believe and we saw with Philip that he was one
of those believers and they listened to what he said when they saw the signs
that followed him, what signs was this ‘many with unclean spirits got set free
and many sick got healed, this is the same for you and me today, we have authority.
You don’t need to know a lot, you just need to know that Jesus has
done it on the cross and you can do it. You don’t need to know why that
demon is there, how many there is, you don’t need to go into details.
If you meet somebody who starts to react as soon as you come there you
know there is a demon and there you just take authority and you call
out and command that demon to go, sometimes it is like a cough, and
you just see they are free and you know they are free. Other times
they are relaxed, and you are not sure so you ask them ‘how are you?
do you feel you are free? ‘yes’…or ‘no….i feel there is a little more’
‘ok we will pray a little more. And you pray and you command it to go.
We have been given authority to cast out demons, we don’t need to
ask permission we just go and do it. When that is said, ‘it is not everything
that is demonic as I said last time ‘demons we cast out’ ‘mind we renew’.
We do not cast out the mind and try to renew the spirit. We cast out the spirit
and renew the mind, and as I said last time sometimes it is not enough
sometimes we need the gospel and I tried to put it all together
and explain how I use this. When demons are manifesting by
talking with them or when you start to pray for sickness and the demons is
manifesting you just take authority and cast it out. When people are
coming to you and saying ‘can you pray for me I have a problem? Often
what you can do is you can say “ok what is your problem?” and by
hearing what their problem is you can then create a picture in your
mind so you know what they need to be free. For example, if somebody come
and say, Ouf, I really have a problem with porn. I have been seeing a lot of
porn on the internet and I feel addicted to it and it&#39;s really hard. In some case
it can be every thing. It can be a renewal of the mind that need to take place.
It can also be unclean spirit and deliverance need to take place. If I meet a person who have that,
the question is first, the gospel. Have you repented? Or do you just live
in sin with many other things also? Or is it just that thing that is not easy to let go?
Have you repented and have you got a new heart? Question? Have
got baptised in water after you repented? And have you
received the Holy Spirit? Because the bible says again as I
said last time the one who does sin becomes a slave to sin. He had now
seen a lot of porn on the internet and became a slave to it. What
he needs of course is to repent. But he also needs to bury the old body.
He needed to get rid of that old body that was bound to sin and in those
cases I have seen many people come and have been bound to sin and when they get
baptised in water and come out again they are free or it is leaving them right away.
So I would ask ‘what about this? What about this?, what about this?
And if he says ‘I have repented I have been baptised in water, I have the
Holy Spirit, I speak in tongues. Then I would say ok’ let’s pray and
see what happens. And then I would take his hand and then lead
him to a prayer of repentance. ‘I don’t know if it is a spirit,
I don’t know if it is just a renewing of the mind, so I work with
everything at the same time. So I lead him into a prayer of repentance and
as soon as he has prayed a prayer and asked for forgiveness I would just speak
speak as if there was a demon, I would then say “you unclean spirit go right now”
“I command you unclean spirit go right now, go right now, go right now!” “I
command this spirit, unclean spirit, the spirit of addiction the spirit
of porn I command you spirit come out of him! leave him right now!” And I
would speak like there is something. After a few seconds or fifteen seconds
he starts to breath quicker and he start to breathe and he start to manifest so
you therefore see there is a spirit and then you command until he is coughing
and it&#39;s out of there ‘deep exhale’ and something left him. I would
have to say ‘now it is gone. But now you have to
renew your mind. Take Romans 6, read it again
and say ‘I am free from sin. Sin has no more dominion over
me anymore…and so on and so on. This is how I would deal with him or if
I pray for him and nothing manifests then I say ok I don’t think it is a demon
because we have authority and I spoke and nothing happened so therefore I
think you just have to renew your mind You have to understand you are free.
And then I would encourage him to read Romans 6 and pray about it
when he gets that understanding of what it is and there he will experience
freedom, this is one example. Another example ‘a woman came to me
and she said “I have a problem with an eating disorder, I have a problem with
that” ‘ok’ how did it start? I often ask that, ‘how did it start? And then you
actually find out the eating disorder is not the main problem…the eating disorder
is just the fruit of the main problem. The main problem maybe was ‘a problem
with her parents, that she has unforgiveness towards them because she
is hurt or she experienced something in school or somebody teased her. So
I have a problem but I want to go to the root of the problem and when it is
like that I know that it can be demonic, it maybe starts up as a hurt and
bitterness and unforgiveness but it can open the door to something that is
demonic so I would again ask her what about the gospel first, ‘have you repented?
Have you been baptised in water and the Holy Spirit? ‘if
not I would actually just sit down and go through the gospel with her
and then take it all right away. ‘If that is ok I would then say ok’
are you ready to forgive those people who hurt you? Are
you ready to let go? Why? Because I don’t know if it is a
demon and I don’t know if it is renewing the mind and no matter what I want to work
with the full freedom, I want to work with everything at the same time. If
it is just a demon they don’t need to forgive you can just cast out that demon
but if she has a problem with forgiveness then for her to really be free in her
mind she needs to forgive, I hope you understand it. So what do I do with her?
I would lead her through a prayer and say are you ready to forgive those people
who teach you in school are you ready to forgive your parents and let go? And if
she is I would take her hand and pray with her, lead her through a prayer
confession, I forgive those people who hurt me, I forgive my parents and then
as soon as I pray for her I say “let go, let go, let go, ‘freedom, freedom,
‘I speak to this demon I command this spirit to leave her right now, I
command this spirit to go right now in the name of Jesus!” and I would take
authority over that spirit of eating disorder and I would just say
it like ‘ eating disorder’. Like with Jesus there was a dumb spirit
and he said ‘dumb spirit’ come out’, here the problem is ‘eating disorder’
Eating disorder come out! If her problem is depression, ‘Depression come out!
If her problem is fear, ‘Fear come out! So every time I
meet somebody who needs healing for freedom or counselling session or
something ‘I would say “what is your problem?” and if they say the problem is
‘this, this, this, this… so I create a picture, so these are those problems,
‘it could be renewing the mind, casting out demons, and there
is power in the gospel. So I would then talk with her
and lead her through prayer, ‘repentance, forgiveness or I share
the gospel with her and then I would take authority and in many cases
the sooner you take authority and command that demon to go, ‘what happens
they start to manifest because the demon is going. Sometimes you
command that demon to go and nothing is happening and then say ‘I don’t see
there is a demon lets continue with renewing the mind lets continue with
understanding who you are in Christ because it doesn’t look like it&#39;s a demon.
So this is some of the things I often do when it comes to this, another example
‘somebody is addicted to smoking ‘again’ I have met many people who got set free
by renewing the mind and by coming to that knowledge that this is a sin they
need to let go of, but I have also met people where we need to pray into it
and command that spirit of addiction to go and by coughing something
out they are free. So everything as I see it like Jesus healed a blind guy.
Sometimes He just healed it, sometimes he cast out a demon,
so every sickness and addiction it can be a renewing
of the mind and it can be a casting out a demon
and in many cases the gospel is taking it all, because in the gospel
there is the renewing of the mind and repentance. There is ‘burying the old life
in water and there is the Holy Spirit and power to live the new life. Another
thing before I am going to talk about my old life and come with some
examples there, when we talk about casting out demons I think it&#39;s important
for people to understand what is the normal life? Because I meet people who
come to me and think that they have a lot of problems with demons but actually
they don’t have a lot of problems they are just human, they are just normal, for
example often when I have a meeting I use this example ‘sometimes when I am out
driving I can get a thought in my head &quot;What would happen if I drive on the other
side into water, into a big truck?’ I can get that thought, &quot;But
if I am out having a meeting and I ask “how many
sometimes get that thought? It is maybe 30% – 40% who
sometimes think that. It is not a big issue for me and it is not
a big issue for most people because we know when we get a thought, we ignore it,
because we know we are not going to do it We are free not to do it. But there are
people who are so afraid of demon, demon, demon, demon…thinking there is demons
everywhere and when they get the same thought then they run to meeting after
meeting and say “Pray for me, pray for me I have an attack…demons help me, what
is wrong with me, I have that thought!” I have an attack…demons, help me, what
is wrong with me, I have that thought!” And they often think that they have big
issues, it&#39;s not that they don’t have a big issue. It’s that they are just human,
because we are living in a world here where we have problems and where we would get different
thoughts and we would be tempted ‘but’, freedom is; ‘freedom‘not’ to
do what we are tempted to do’. So what is the normal life of a christian?
There are some people who think that the Christian life is like this (image of
straight line) it is like you start your christian walk (beginning of line) and
straight to the end….it is so easy. This is ‘not’ how it is, it is maybe how
it is before you become a Christian but when you become a Christian (opposite
image) it looks more like this (dip and high points) I would say this is how my
life is, ‘I experience attacks, attacks, attacks, and a big! Attack and a
breakthough…another attack, attack, attacksand a big! Attack and
breakthrough a lot of attacks. And I think this is often how we live as
Christians, and try to imagine if I am laying in a hospital right now and I have
a ‘cardiogram on me and this is how my heart is showing mmeeeeeeeeet! (straight
line) if this is cardiogram at a hospital ‘showing how my heart is ‘I am dead!
My heart should look more like this (dips and high points) The
same way I would say to people if your life is like this ‘you are dead’ you
need to become alive with Jesus, you need to live for him because as soon
as you become alive for Jesus, ‘I am going to talk about that in some of the
other programmes about the attacks you will experience crazy
attacks, crazy attacks’. Story, some of you have heard the
story how I met my wife, the story if you don’t know it, after I became a Christian.
I was at a Christian concert and there I heard God spoke to me he said
“Torben”, and I was like ‘yea’, “the one standing behind you, she is going
to be your wife some day and I was like &quot;Wow&quot; and I turned around and I saw her!
I just knew it was my wife! It was the one God had for me. I only smiled at her,
jumped into the car, went home. I said to my friend on my way home “Hey Michael! I
have just met my wife!” “I don’t know her name?, I don’t know where she is from?
I don’t know how old she is? But God “has said that girl in that dress
is some day going to be my wife”. I came home to my old city, and said “God
you have to put me together with her. I don’t know where she is from? three
months later He put us together and now we have been married
20 years and have three kids. It was very short how I met my
wife, many have heard that story but many have not
heard another story. Some years later after we were married I
experienced some of those attacks, and one day it came to my head like almost the
same voice as I heard many years before ‘Leave your wife, leave your kids, go out
in the world.’ ‘What! ‘Leave your wife, leave your kids and go out in the world’.
And it just came to me in my head! Leave your wife, leave your kids..go…! ”No!
No! I love Lene! I love my kids!….. I love you Jesus!” I am not going to live
in sin, I am not going to leave you!” …… &quot;Leave your wife, leave your kids go out
into the world.&quot; Suddenly it was like somebody in my head was speaking
to me that I should leave my wife, leave my kids and go out in the world.
But I knew the word of God, and I took the word and I said,
“God, what you have put together, no man shall divide. Go away satan,
in the name of Jesus.&quot; And I went on praying and praying against it.
But it was like nothing had happened. It was just in my head!
My head! My head! What then? I prayed. I said it to
my wife &quot;Pray for me, pray for me… &quot;I feel I should leave you and
the kids and I don’t want it. I pray God, pray for me, pray
for me… I feel an attack! After three days that thing just left!
And I was clear in my head again, and I did not understand why did I
experience something like that? A few days later I was at a meeting
where I got a prophecy and the prophecy was that many have come to
that point where I was now but have fallen and I should do this and this and
this and when I got the prophecy suddenly I understood something, before that I
sometimes never understood how can people first experience Jesus and then fall away?
But now I understood’ ‘we are in a war’ we are in a spiritual
war’ and therefore people fall away. And Ephesians 6, talks about putting on
the armour of God the helmet of salvation to help us through those attacks, the
shield of faith and so on. So I there experienced an attack, it did not mean
I had a demon, it just means that I am alive for God so it does not mean I have
run to a meeting and ask ‘pray for me, pray for me I have a demon’ inside, ‘no
it’s not an attack from inside, it is an attack from outside. And sometimes
there is people who think they have a lot of demons but they don’t
have a lot of demons, they just have the wrong focus and they think that …they take
the small attacks they experience and then they paint it up to be something big!
And that is why I sometimes use this example when I talk to people about
deliverance and say “come on, there is nothing wrong with you that your life
looks like this (dips and highs) it doesn’t mean you have a lot of demons,
this just means that you are taking new steps in faith and God is with
you, and satan hates you. So, ok about freedom, my life I will try
to take a person and talk about my life about how I experienced freedom and then
I will pray for all of you out there. How I experienced my freedom, my life
was good up until that day. I got born and then the problems started because
when I got born 40 years ago I had many problems in my life, one of the problems
was I had a speech problem, I could not pronounce my own name. When I was
younger my name was Torben Sondergaard it is still Torben Sondergaard but I said
‘Gorben Goonergaur I couldn’t pronounce my own name, and it was only my brother
who understood me when I was really young so when I went to school, when my school
class had teaching I was very often sitting in another room with somebody
teaching me to pronounce words and to speak, and I tried to pronounce words
‘G, G,G, …..and it was not easy for me. At the same time I could not read and
write and I actually had problems with that and I also was not together with
my class I was sitting in another room with somebody who was helping me to
read and write and I got checked and they tried to see if everything was
ok but I was just not good at it. At the same time I was the fat boy in the
class, I was the boy who after school bought a bag of chips and a coke on
my way home and watched tv the whole afternoon and evening and the
day after, and the day after. So you know if you cannot read, if you
cannot write, if you are a big boy, if you have problems speaking and you
are not together with the rest of the class you get teased a lot. So I got
teased and I was one of those who went home crying a lot after school and dreamt
about something else. When I left school I had no self-confidence at all and I had
a lot of hurt inside because of what I experienced, then I left school and took
one year on another school and I hope maybe I can change myself here because
I hated who I was, but when I left to another school I could see I could not
change myself I was the one I was, I could not change who I was. So I came
in the old thing again and I got teased and it was not easy for me. What
happened then was ‘at that time I was 15 – 16 years old, I would say my
mum meant a lot to me, I was my mum’s boy because when I got teased a lot my
mum understood me ‘she was good to me, she loved me a lot’. My father was a good
man but he had his own business, I did not have a close relationship with him,
so my mum meant everything to me. What happened there was ‘my mum one day
when I was 16 years old, she got a stroke and she got paralysed and was
almost dying again, and again and again, so suddenly I lost my mum, suddenly and
next time I saw her she ‘yes’ she was without hair laying in a hospital bed and
it did something I me, it really hurt me! It created some hurt inside of me! I
remember when I was 16 years old she was lying in a hospital bed and I was
alone with her and she was paralysed now and she had a respirator helping her
to breath and she started to come to herself and speak a little and she tried
to take the respirator off her body, and I was standing there saying ‘mum
no don’t do it’ and she tried it again and I said ‘mum don’t do it’ and
she tried it again, and then I heard her say with a big voice “let go!” “or I
kill you!” and I remember still like it was yesterday. When she said those
words ‘let go, I kill you’ it was like a knife just came into my body and killed me.
Something just broke inside of me. And she was at the hospital just one and a
half year and at that time I got hurt a lot and later, a few years later I got a
girlfriend and she was unfaithful to me and I was unfaithful to her and I got
hurt because of that and she because of what I did, so when I was 18 years old I
had ‘no’ self -confidence, I could not read or write, I read one small book in
my whole life, I had a lot of hurt from my mum, because with my mum’s thing
it built a big wall around me because I got hurt, and when you get hurt
you build a wall around you to protect you from getting hurt again, so nobody could
come close to me. Nobody could talk about emotion and feeling, I had really big
problems with that I was always making fun or pushing people away as soon as
they came close to me I did not believe in love at that time because of
my girlfriend ‘I got hurt there. So as 18 years old it was my life, a
lot of problems, no self-confidence, had a hurt when it came to relationship,
mum and dad, and did not believe in love. But then ‘God came’ ‘Da’ Daa!
The Holy Spirit came in! And when the Holy Spirit came in,
God came, the first thing that happened was that I just knew ‘nothing!
Is impossible for those who believe. Nothing is impossible!
Something just grew inside of me and I just knew everything is now
possible this was the first thing I experienced. Second thing I experienced
in the gospel I got set free from the spirit of death, I was so afraid of dying
but when the gospel came in that fear of dying just went away and something
happened to me and then God started to heal me, to set me free. My
life was not a lot of deliverance, my life was spending time with
God and seeing healing by that. At one time the Holy Spirit came in and I
just started to cry, ‘I was crying, every time I was at a meeting I was crying,
and crying and crying and people came and said (people)“are you good Torben?”
“are you ok?” (Torben) “yes…I am… (people) “why are you crying?”
(Torben) “I don’t know”…. But why was I crying? ‘I
was crying because some of the hurt with my mum and dad,
some of the hurt came out and I believe I went through a healing
or deliverance there without anybody praying for me but just spending
time with God and renewing my mind the healing started and God
he started to set me free. One of the things that really set me free
was LOVE, love, because what I have seen is not just about the gospel, healing the
sick, casting out demons, it is really the ‘LOVE’ and people need to experience
the love, the love of God and the love of the church. Because what was interesting
with me, after I met my wife Lene, I remember one time I met somebody ‘my
father in-law he became my spiritual father, he was an amazing guy, Lene’s
father is an amazing guy who had a church at home so he became my
spiritual father when I got born again and helped me and was there in the
beginning a lot and what was amazing was when they took me to some friends,
and I remember I was a young boy, new in the faith and I came into that
house and there was a big guy living in that house and I put my hand out to say
‘Hi.’ But when I put out my hand to say &#39;Hi&#39;, he just said “Hi and gave me a BIG hug!
And I was standing like this (shock!) I was standing like this (in shock) when
he hugged me, It was so weird for me and I remember I sat down on a chair
afterward and looked at this man’ (weird….moving away) ‘who is he?
‘he touched me? He hugged me? It felt so weird because I was not used
to that, we did not touch each other in our family, we did not hug each other,
we did not talk a lot about love and emotions and I was not used to that
when he hugged me it felt somehow weird but it felt good. It felt like ‘I
need that’ I need a strong man in my life who can be like a father who can give
me a hug and God there started to heal me and what I see that many people who
have issues in life actually have issues because of their parents of lack of that.
They have issues because they did not have a mum in their life who really could
give them what they needed and a mum is supposed to create security and safety
where you experience that, a father is supposed to create faith in you, you can
do it, come on climb tall as the tree, run faster, you can do it, more…you are cool!
You can do it, you are amazing! A father is supposed to create that
self confidence that you can do it. What our problem is in the world today
when we often counsel people and talk with people? is that people do not have
that father and mother in their life as I did not have like that who could create
that foundation and many people are hurt and have issues today that go down to that
so when I counsel people I often ask ‘how is your relationship with your mum and
your dad, and quite often we need to forgive, we need to forgive them and
sometimes we need to cast out demons and sometimes we just need to give people love.
Just give them a big hug. What happened for me was that God started,
I got that hug and got introduced to my family so we started to hug each
other in my family at home with my mum and dad because I somehow brought it in.
but there were things that was difficult for me. I remember a few years ago I was
in Moldova we were driving down there through Germany and Poland and Romania
and Moldova and it was a long trip and we felt we were far away and
we had been driving the whole way with my wife and family and we were going
to drive through Ukraine Home and so on so I wrote a letter to my parents I
wrote’ Hey mum and dad ‘everything is good, everything is good and so on and so
on…..see you later, and then I wrote in the end “I love you” normally I did not
write that but it only because I felt far away and I did not know if I was going
to survive, so I just wanted to let them know, and then they wrote back again.
Ah Torben! Thank you! thank you for your letter and especially the last three words!
‘we have read them again and again and again. And it meant so much to
my parents to hear me say that I love them. But when I came home I couldn’t say
it again I couldn’t say it again, it was so difficult, and I thought what is wrong?
Because I know I love my parents, why could I not say that I love them?
Maybe because I don’t remember when I heard my father say that he loves
me, and God started to work in me and especially the last years even when
we got the Jesus hotel and we started to travel because it is so interesting
when you travel you meet many cultures. The first time we came to Holland we
were saying ‘hello’ and people ‘kissed’ in Holland like three times……kiss, kiss,
kiss and we were not used to that so the first time we were like oh? they are
kissing!, then we went other places, South Africa people kiss on the mouth there!!!
In some places!!! and the next time we met somebody (stretched
our hand out to them to try not to get close) “hello….Then there came a girl
here from Italy and I said ‘hello and she was ready to give me a kiss! And
I was thinking ‘oh no’ is it two or three times? It was only two times. But
one time at the Jesus hotel here we were standing with some of the young
people and I asked them ‘do you tell your parents that you love them?
(young people) ‘no…no, no, no (T) “Do you give hugs to people
at home?” (young people) ‘No’ And many young people are not used
to that, many people are not used to talking about emotion, many people are not
used to that. So what did I do? I sat down and wrote a letter to my dad and said
“Father, it is so difficult for me to say I love you, and I don’t want it to
be like that, I just want to know that I don’t remember I if I heard it from you
‘and not to criticise but we are not used to that in our family, but I just
want to let you know that I love you. And normally he answered back but he
didn’t so I needed to call him after a few days and say did you get the letter?
‘yes thank you’ ‘but I don’t know what to answer?’ I said “oh, it’s ok” But I
went home and me and my father he is 78 for the first time ever I remember
we took a father, son walk and we talked about it and he said “Torben, about your
letter, yes, we were not used to hugging each other in our family and touching each
other and I have not said that I love you, because my father had never told me that
he loved me, I am not used to this. And for me to hear those words actually
did something to me because, it’s not because my parents don’t love me, but
they did not know how to say it. Because they were influenced themselves.
And there is truly a freedom in this and there is many of you who are seeing this
now who have the same issue, some of you were already touched when I spoke about
it, and you are thinking ‘this is me’ ‘my father was not there,
my mother was not there’. And what we often do when we talk about God
is that if God is our father, but then we take God down on a human level so if
we had a father who was not there who heart us or hit us or did not have time
for us we take God down and think God is like that, God doesn’t have time for
us, he doesn’t like us. But Jesus said, ‘When you who are evil give your
kids good gifts how much more will your Father in heaven not give the Spirit
to those who ask him. So Jesus is saying that we here who are evil can do good
things but God who is in heaven, he is up there, he is so much stronger and
better, pure, and loving, like any father here on earth. And we should never
take God down on a human level and make him like our father was here. And
I would say when I started to talk about this there is many people who
need to forgive their parents. ‘Yes but they hurt me’ ‘they didn’t give me what I needed’.
“Yes forgive them”. There is so much power in forgiveness.
When Jesus hung on the cross he said “Father forgive them for they do not
know what they are doing” “We think of course we knew what they were
doing!” “They took Jesus..and put him on the cross!” No, they did not know it!
they were not free those Romans who put Jesus on the cross, they were not free,
they were influenced by the Romans, they were influenced by fear, and they
were influenced by a lot of lies, they did not know who Jesus really was otherwise
they would not have done it. So they did it influenced by other people, the
same way with your mum, with your dad, with people around us who have hurt us
in school, people who have mocked us, people who have stolen, people who have
done things, we can forgive them, why? Because they did not know what they were
doing, if your father, if your mother were free and were not influenced by sin
and this world and by a childhood where they also did not experience love, hugging
and forgiveness, if they were totally free they would have given you something else,
but you cannot give something you don’t have. And I would say that this is a big
part of healing, ‘a big part’ of freedom, where we talk about this and the body of
Christ, the church should be a family where we come in and give a big hug!
And experience that we are family, we are not members of a body or
member of a church, we are family, we love each other. And I say no matter
what look at me! Again I could not read, I could not write, I had a lot of
problems but God has set me free. My Father never told me as I remember
that he loved me, I had a hurt, my mum got saved I had a hurt but God set me
free and delivered me, and now I am a father for many people, there are young
girls and boys I feel I can be there, and sometimes we don’t need to talk a lot
we just need to give them a hug. Come on’ I believe in you’ I believe in you.
So I want to end this up ‘we have got authority to cast out demons, when
it&#39;s a demon we don’t need to know a lot we just need to ‘say ‘come out in the
name of Jesus’ but sometimes it is not a demon or deliverance we need,
sometimes it is a renewing of the mind, sometimes it is the gospel, but very
often it is just ‘LOVE’. Love hides a multitude of sins, to come in and
experience family, experience love. If that is you, if I meet somebody and I
talk about those things, what I often say to them, who are you?, what is your background?
What has made you who you are? And now you have heard this
teaching, what has made you who you are? What is your story? Some would
say ‘oh I have a problem with my mum, or my father, or I lost a
friend who died many years ago, I still hurt, I got teased in school and it opened
me up for something, I live in hard sin many years ago and I’ve never been able
to let go or I have a problem with this, I have a problem with a sickness, and it
came in like this and I have a problem with this, this…. By hearing
people telling their story they know ok, ‘do we start with the gospel,
do we start with casting out demons or maybe we start with renewing the mind
or maybe it is everything at the same time? Maybe they just need to forgive
their parents and we pray over them, and we command every hurt, every spirit
of unforgiveness and every hurt to leave, and then they cry and we give them a hug
and there is freedom and healing there and very often we did it here with the students
here at the Pioneer Training School a few days ago I talked about this and there
were people who broke down crying and so on, and very often something is
starting there like when my mum got sick I could not cry for years, I was not
able to cry but when the Holy Spirit came in I started to cry, cry, cry. And
that healing it took a few months before everything was out, when do we
know if a person is truly free? It is not always easy to see, sometimes we stand
in a place where we think maybe I need more freedom. Our focus is not ‘do I have problems?
Our focus is just doing the right thing, but sometimes things pop up,
and then we deal with it, we pray into it and we see what it is. Is it something
with the gospel we need? Is it the casting out of demons? or if it is the
renewing of the mind or what is it? I hope you got something out of this teaching.
It is a difficult teaching to do when I don’t know who you are who are
listening, if I saw you and you were standing in front of me right now
this is much more simple and so much more easier because then I would just ask
you’ who are you? what is your problem ok and then out of what you say I would
see if there is anybody you need to forgive? ‘ok’ is there anything you need to repent for?
‘ok&#39; have you been baptised in water? or have you received the Holy Spirit?
If not that is what you need, and then I would lead you to a prayer, take
your hands and get you to relax, and then I would pray a prayer with you where
you might confess after me, and say ‘God I come to you ‘take my mum and my dad and
I hand them over to you, I take this hurt and I lay it over to you, I repent,
I ask for forgiveness for my sins, I have sins, I have sinned, I need
forgiveness to set me free, set me free from this spirit of depression, or
what it is, and then I would pray for them and then when I pray for them as
soon as I say Amen, I say ‘Holy Spirit now it is you, And then I would speak, I
say “I speak to your hurt go right now, I speak to your hurt, unforgiveness with
your mum, dad go right now, spirit of unforgiveness go right now! Spirit of
depression go right now!, spirit of infirmity go right now! I speak to this
spirit of eating disorder, leave her, this pain go right now, just
speak, speak, speak, speak! And often something will happen, you don’t
close your eyes, you have your eyes open so you can see the manifestation,
what is happening, and sometimes you can just see them yawn, sometimes you
are not sure you ask, ‘is there more? Yes there is more’ or ‘no’….’I am free’,
and you pray for the Holy Spirit to fill them up. The best thing you can do is just
try to do it. The worst thing you can do is take this teaching and think ‘Oh no, it&#39;s
too complicated! I don’t know when is that? ‘Just do it! ‘just go out and do it!
and you will learn by doing! Ok, the next teaching I will do in a few
weeks, I am going to Israel first and Jordan to have some meetings and then
after Israel, Jordan, we are going to do the next lesson on the Pioneer
School and maybe if there is some questions to this question I can
start with that in the next lesson. I will end up now, and hope you got something out
of this teaching and I will end up praying for you. You out there, now you
have listened to this. there is authority, I would like to pray for you, ‘are you
sick? Do you have sickness? Put your hand on the sick place, if you have pain in your heart
put your hand there, and I will pray with you and if you need to
forgive people who have hurt you, Then it is a decision, decide in your
heart you want to forgive them right now, and you pray with me, you pray and say“I
forgive them right now ‘I forgive my parents, my mum, my father what
they did, what they did not do, how they were not there, I let go of this
pain, I take this and I throw it on you Jesus and then I would pray for God
to come and the Holy Spirit, if you need more freedom and deliverance
go to our map and find somebody close to you because this is something
where people need too often sit down and do counselling and
you need somebody close to you who can do it or come to a
kick-start event or something else. I will pray now, God thank you for this
teaching, thank you for what you are doing, thank you because there is
freedom in you Jesus ‘I pray for those people who are sick in this right now
God I pray for freedom! Freedom to you right now in the name of Jesus every
hurt, every hurt in their heart that came through the mum, every hurt
when it comes to the dad, every hurt when it comes to being teased in school,
every hurt when it comes to bad experiences, I speak to this hurt, I
speak to this spirit of unbelief, unforgiveness, I speak to the spirit of
unforgiveness, I command the spirit to go right now, right now in the name of
Jesus, I speak to this hurt ‘go right now! I speak to this sickness this unclean
spirit I command you leave that person right now! I speak freedom! And I speak life!
In the name of Jesus I command you demon go right now! You unclean spirit go!
Go right now! You spirit of infirmity go right now in the name of Jesus! I speak
to you spirit of depression, spirit of fear! Go right now! In the name of Jesus!
I command freedom! In the name of Jesus and I ask you God come with your Holy
Spirit right now….(tongues) come with your Holy Spirit right now and fill
that person up, God come with your Holy Spirit God and if they need the gospel,
if they need to repent and get baptised Holy Spirit come and convince them,
convince them that this is what they need, open their eyes God, and pray
they are going to experience the same freedom I and thousands of other
people have experienced in you, so come Holy Spirit speak to them
touch them right now! In the name of Jesus. Amen. Come on guys. I
hope you got something out of it. I know it was a little long teaching
A lot of information. You&#39;re welcome to see this teaching more times so you
really understand it and get it under skin. Until next time. God bless you.
Good-bye. Subtitles by the Amara.org community 