FIRST, LEARN THE PRELIMINARIES. THINK THAT ALL PHENOMENA ARE LIKE DREAMS. EXAMINE THE NATURE OF UNBORN AWARENESS. LET EVEN THE REMEDY ITSELF GO FREE ON ITS
OWN. SETTLE IN THE NATURE OF BASIC COGNITION, THE
ESSENCE. BETWEEN SESSIONS, CONSIDER PHENOMENA AS PHANTOMS. TRAIN IN JOINING, SENDING AND TAKING TOGETHER. DO THIS BY RIDING THE BREATH. THREE OBJECTS, THREE POISONS, THREE BASES
OF VIRTUE. TRAIN WITH PHRASES IN EVERY MODE OF BEHAVIOR. Religion is not a science.... Religion is not a science in the sense physics,
mathematics and chemistry are sciences. But still it is a science because it is the
ultimate knowing: the word science means knowing. And if religion is not a science, what else
can be? It is the
highest knowing, it is the purest knowing. Ordinary science is knowledge, not knowing:
religion is knowing itself. Ordinary science
is object-oriented -- it knows something, hence it is knowledge. Religion is not objectoriented;
it has no object, it knows nothing. Knowing knows itself, as if the mirror is
reflecting itself. It is utterly pure of all content. Hence religion is not knowledge but
knowing. Science is a lower kind of knowing, religion
is a higher kind. Religion is PHILOSOPHIA
ULTIMA: the ultimate knowing. The difference between the two is not of the
spirit -- the spirit is the same -- but the difference is
certainly of purity. Science is mixed with much mud. Religion is pure essence, pure fragrance. The mud has
disappeared, the lotus has appeared. And at the ultimate stage even the lotus has
disappeared, only the fragrance abides. These are the three stages of knowing: the
mud, the lotus and the fragrance. Religion cannot be grasped, because there
is no object in it. But still it can be understood. It cannot be explained, but it can be experienced. There is no way of informing you about
religion, because it cannot be reduced to information. But you can be shown the way, the
path to it -- fingers pointing to the moon. The fingers are not the moon, obviously, but
the fingers can point to the moon. These &quot;Seven Points of Mind Training&quot; of the
great master Atisha, are fingers, seven fingers pointing to the moon. Don&#39;t be caught by the fingers, don&#39;t become
too much obsessed with the fingers. That is not the point, that will be missing
the point. Use the
fingers and forget them, and look where the fingers are pointing. And when you see the
moon, who bothers about the fingers? Who remembers them? They automatically
become nonessential; they disappear. That&#39;s why for those who have experienced
religion, all the scriptures become utterly useless, all methods become nonessential. When the goal is achieved, the path is
forgotten. Atisha is one of the rare masters, rare in
the sense that he was taught by three enlightened masters. It has never happened before, and never since. To be a disciple of three
enlightened masters  is simply unbelievable -- because one enlightened
master is enough. But this story, that he was taught by three
enlightened masters, has a metaphorical significance also. And it is true, it is historical too. The three masters that Atisha remained with
for many years were: first, Dharmakirti, a great Buddhist mystic. He taught him no-mind, he taught him emptiness,
he taught him how to be thoughtless, he taught him how to
drop all content from the mind and be contentless. The second master was Dharmarakshita, another
Buddhist mystic. He taught
him love, compassion. And the third master was Yogin Maitreya, another
Buddhist mystic. He taught him the art of taking the suffering
of others and absorbing it into your own heart: love in action. This could happen because all these three
masters were great friends. They had started
their search together; while they were on the way they had remained together, and when
they attained they were still together. Atisha became a disciple of Dharmakirti. Dharmakirti said to him, &quot;I will teach you
the first principle. And for the second you go to Dharmarakshita,
and for the third to Yogin Maitreya. This way you will know all the three faces
of the ultimate reality, the three faces of God -- the trinity, the TRIMURTI. And this way you will learn each face from
the person who is the most perfect in it.&quot; These are the three ways people reach to the
ultimate. If you reach through emptiness you
attain the other two also, but your path remains basically that of emptiness -- you know
more about emptiness, so emptiness will be emphasized in whatsoever you teach. That&#39;s what happened in Buddha&#39;s case. He had attained through emptiness, hence his
whole teaching became emptiness-oriented. There is no God in Buddha&#39;s teaching,
because God is a thought, a content, an object -- God is the other, and Buddha had
attained by dropping the other. Buddha had attained by emptying his mind totally,
hence there is no place for God, no place for anything
at all. His path is the purest VIA
NEGATIVA. That was also the case with Dharmakirti. He was 
the perfect master of emptiness, a master par excellence of emptiness. And when Atisha had learned how to be empty,
the master said, &quot;It will be better for you to
go to Dharmarakshita for the next step, because he has attained from a totally different path. Just as you can reach Everest from different
sides, he has reached from a totally different path, the path of compassion. I can also
teach you the path of compassion, but my knowing about that path is only known from
the top. &quot;I have reached through the path of emptiness. Once you reach the top, you can look
down at all the paths, they are all available to your vision. But to follow a path in its
different dimensions, to follow a path in all its details, small details, is a totally
different thing.&quot; And to look at it from a helicopter or from
the mountain-top is certainly a different vision; it is a bird&#39;s-eye view. And Dharmakirti said, &quot;If there had been nobody
available here, I would have taught you the other too. But when a man like Dharmarakshita is just
here, my neighbor, living in another cave just nearby, it is better you
go to him.&quot; First one has to become empty, utterly empty. But you have not to cling to emptiness,
otherwise your life will never know the positive expression of religion. Your life will
miss the poetry, the joy of sharing; you will remain empty. You will have a kind of
freedom, but your freedom will be only freedom from, it will not be freedom FOR. And
unless a freedom is both -- freedom from and freedom for -- something is missing,
something is lacking; your freedom will be poor. Just to be free from is a poor kind of
freedom. The real freedom starts only when you are
free for. You can sing a song and you can
dance a dance and you can celebrate and you can start overflowing. That&#39;s what
compassion is. Man lives in passion. When the mind disappears, passion is transformed
into compassion. Passion means you are a beggar with a begging-bowl;
you are asking and asking for more and more from everybody; you are exploiting
others. Your relationships are nothing but
exploitations -- cunning devices to possess the other, very clever strategies to dominate. When you are living in the mind, in passion,
your whole life is power politics. Even your
love, even your social service, even your humanitarian works, are nothing but power
politics. Deep down, there is a desire to be powerful
over others. The same energy, when the mind is dropped,
becomes compassion. And it takes a totally
new turn. It is no longer begging; you become an emperor,
you start giving. Now you
have something -- you had it always, but because of the mind, you were not aware of it. The mind was functioning like darkness around
you, and you were unaware of the light within. The mind was creating an illusion of being
a beggar, while all the time you had been an emperor. The mind was creating a dream; in reality
you never needed anything. All had already been given. All that you need, all that you can need,
is already the case. God is within you, but because of the mind
-- mind means dreaming, desiring -- you never look within, you go on rushing outwards. You keep yourself in the background,
your eyes are turned towards the outside, they have become focused there. That&#39;s what
the mind is all about: focusing the eyes on the outside. And one has to learn how to unfocus them from
there -- how to make them loose, less rigid, more liquid, so that they can turn
inwards. Once you have seen who you are, the
beggar disappears. In fact it had never existed; it was just
a dream, an idea. The mind is creating all your misery. With the mind gone, misery is gone, and suddenly
you are full of energy. And the energy needs expression, sharing;
it wants to become a song, a dance, a celebration. That is compassion: you start sharing. Atisha learned compassion from Dharmarakshita. But compassion has two faces. One is
inactive compassion: the meditator sits silently in his cave, showering his compassion
over the whole existence. But it is a very inactive kind of compassion. You have to go to
him to partake of it, he will not come to you. You will have to go to the mountains to his
cave to share his joy; he will not come to you. He will not move in any way, he will not
take any active step. He will not flow towards others, he will not
seek and search for the people with whom he can share his dance. He will wait. This is a feminine kind of compassion: just
like a woman waits -- she never takes the initiative, she never goes to the man. She may love the man, but she will never be
the first to say &quot;I love you.&quot; She will wait; she will hope that one day
or other, sooner or later, the man will propose. Woman is inactive love, passive love. Man is active love, man takes
the initiative. And in the same way, compassion has two possibilities:
the feminine and the masculine. From Dharmarakshita, Atisha learned the feminine
art of being in love with existence. One more step was needed: Dharmarakshita told
him, &quot;Go to Yogin Maitreya&quot; -- these three masters were all living together in
the same vicinity -- &quot;Go to Yogin Maitreya and
learn how to transform the baser energy into active energy, so love becomes active.&quot; And once love is active, compassion is active,
you have passed through all the three dimensions of truth -- you have known all. You have known utter emptiness, you have
known compassion arising, you have known compassion showering. Life is fulfilled only
when all these three have happened. Because Atisha learned under three enlightened
masters, he is called Atisha the Thrice Great. Nothing more is known about his ordinary life,
when and where exactly he was born. He existed somewhere in the eleventh century. He was born in India, but the
moment his love became active he started moving towards Tibet, as if a great magnet
were pulling him there. In the Himalayas he attained; then he never
came back to India. He moved towards Tibet, his love showered
on Tibet. He transformed the whole quality
of Tibetan consciousness. He was a miracle-worker; whatsoever he touched
was transformed into gold. He was one of the greatest alchemists the
world has ever known. These &quot;Seven Points of Mind Training&quot; are
the fundamental teaching that he gave to Tibet -- a gift from India to Tibet. India has given great gifts to the world. Atisha is one
of those great gifts. Just as India gave Bodhidharma to China, India
gave Atisha to Tibet. Tibet is infinitely indebted to this man. These seven points, the smallest treatise
you can find, are of immense value. You will
have to meditate over each statement. They are the whole of religion condensed:
you will have to unfold each statement. They are like seeds, they contain much. It may not be
apparently so, but the moment you move into the statements deeply, when you
contemplate and meditate and start experimenting with them, you will be surprised -- you
will be going into the greatest adventure of your life. The first:
FIRST, LEARN THE PRELIMINARIES. What are the preliminaries? These are the preliminaries. First: truth is. Truth is not
something to be created, truth is not something that is far away. Truth is herenow, truth
surrounds you like the ocean surrounds the fish. The fish may not be aware -- once the
fish becomes aware of the ocean, the fish is enlightened. The fish is not aware, cannot be
aware, because the fish is born in the ocean, has always lived in the ocean, is part of
the ocean as any wave is part of the ocean. The fish is also a wave -- a little more solid,
but born out of the ocean, lives in the ocean
and one day disappears in the ocean. The fish
may never come to know about the ocean. To know something, a little distance is needed. To know something, perspective is needed. And the ocean is so close, that&#39;s why the
fish may not be aware of it. And so is the case with truth, or if you like
you can use the word god. So is the case with
god. It is not that he is far away, and that&#39;s
why we don&#39;t know about him; it is because he
is not far away but very close by. Even to say that it is close by is not right,
because you are it. He is within you and without: he is all and
all. This is the first thing that has to be allowed
to sink deep in your heart: truth already is, we
are in it. This is the most fundamental thing to begin
with. You are not to discover it; it is
not covered. All that is needed is a new kind of awareness
which is missing in you. Truth
is there, but you are not aware, you are not mindful, you are not alert. You don&#39;t know
how to watch, you don&#39;t know how to observe, you don&#39;t know how to look and see. You
have eyes but still you are blind, you have ears but you are deaf. The first preliminary is: truth is. The second preliminary is: mind is the barrier. Nothing else is hindering you from truth,
just your own mind. Mind surrounds you like a film, like a movie
that goes on and on, and you remain engrossed in it, fascinated
by it. It is a fantasy that surrounds you, a
continuous story that goes on and on. And because you are so fascinated by it, you
go on missing that which is. And mind is not; it is only a fantasy, it
is only a faculty for dreaming. Mind is nothing but dreams and dreams -- dreams
of the past, dreams of the future, dreams of how things should be, dreams of
great ambitions, achievements. Dreams and
desires, that is the stuff mind is made of. But it surrounds you like a China Wall. And
because of it the fish remains unaware of the ocean. So the second preliminary is: mind is the
only barrier. And the third: no-mind is the door. Atisha calls no-mind BODHICHITTA: that is
his word for no-mind. It can be translated as buddha-mind, buddha-consciousness,
too. Or if
you like you can call it christ-consciousness, krishna-consciousness. It doesn&#39;t make any
difference what name is used, but the basic quality of bodhichitta is that it is no-mind. It
looks paradoxical: the mind in the state of no-mind. But the meaning is very clear: mind
without content, mind without thoughts, is what is meant, is what is indicated. Remember the word bodhichitta, because Atisha
says the whole effort of religion, the whole science of religion, is nothing but
an endeavor to create bodhichitta, buddhaconsciousness: a mind which functions as a no-mind, a mind
which dreams no more, thinks no more, a mind which is just awareness,
pure awareness. These are the preliminaries. The 
second sutra: THINK THAT ALL PHENOMENA ARE LIKE DREAMS.... Now the work starts. Atisha is very condensed, seedlike. That is the meaning of a sutra: it
is just a thread, just a hint, and then you have to decode it. THINK THAT ALL PHENOMENA ARE LIKE DREAMS. &quot;Phenomena&quot; means all that you see, all that
you experience. All that can ever be
experienced is all phenomena. Remember, not only are the objects of the
world phenomena and dreams, but also objects of
consciousness. They may be objects of the
world, they may be just objects of the mind. They may be great spiritual experiences. You may see kundalini rising in you: that
too is a phenomenon -- a beautiful dream, a
very sweet dream, but it is a dream all the same. You may see great light flooding your
being, but that light is also a phenomenon. You may see lotuses blooming inside you and
a great fragrance arising within your being: those too are phenomena, because you are
always the seer and never the seen, always the experiencer and never the experienced,
always the witness and never the witnessed. All that can be witnessed, seen, observed,
is phenomena. Material phenomena,
psychological phenomena, spiritual phenomena -- they are all the same. There is no need
to make any distinction. The basic thing to remember is: that which
can be seen is a dream. THINK THAT ALL PHENOMENA ARE DREAMS. This is a tremendously powerful technique. Start contemplating in this way: if you are
walking on the street, contemplate that people passing by are all dreams. The shops and
the shopkeepers and the customers and the people coming and going, all are dreams. The
houses, the buses, the train, the airplane, all are dreams. You will be immediately surprised by something
of tremendous import happening within you. The moment you think &quot;All are dreams&quot; suddenly,
like a flash, one thing comes into your vision: &quot;I am a dream too.&quot; Because if the seen is a dream, then who is
this &#39;I&#39;? If the
object is a dream, then the subject is also a dream. If the object is false, how can the
subject be the truth? Impossible. If you watch everything as a dream, suddenly
you will find something slipping out of your being: the idea of the ego. This is the only way to drop the ego, and
the simplest. Just try it -- meditate this way. Meditating this way again and again, one day
the miracle happens: you look in, and the ego is not found
there. The ego is a by-product, a by-product of the
illusion that whatsoever you are seeing is true. If you think that objects are true, then the
ego can exist; it is a by-product. If you
think that objects are dreams, the ego disappears. And if you think continuously that all is
a dream, then one day, in a dream in the night, you will be surprised: suddenly in the
dream you will remember that this is a dream too! And immediately, as the remembrance
happens, the dream will disappear. And for the first time you will experience
yourself deep asleep, yet awake -- a very paradoxical
experience, but of great benefit. Once you have seen your dream disappearing
because you have become aware of the dream, your quality of consciousness will
have a new flavor to it. The next morning you
will wake up with a totally different quality you had never known before. You will wake
up for the first time. Now you will know that all those other mornings
were false; you were not really awake. The dreams continued -- the only difference
was that in the night you were dreaming with eyes closed, in the
day you were dreaming with eyes open. But if the dream has disappeared because awareness
happened, suddenly you became aware in the dream.... And remember, awareness and dreaming cannot
exist together. Here, awareness arises, and there, the dream
disappears. When you become awake in
your sleep, the next morning is going to be something so important that it is
incomparable. Nothing like it has ever happened. Your eyes will be so clear, so
transparent, and everything will look so psychedelic, so colorful, so alive. Even rocks
will be felt to be breathing, pulsating; even rocks will have a heartbeat. When you are
awake, the whole existence changes its quality. We are living in a dream. We are asleep, even when we think we are awake. THINK THAT ALL PHENOMENA ARE LIKE DREAMS. First, objects will lose their objectivity. And second, the subject will lose its subjectivity. And that brings you to a transcendence. The object is no longer important, the subject
is no longer important, then what is left? A transcendental consciousness: bodhichitta
-- just a witnessing, with no idea of &#39;I&#39; and &#39;thou&#39;;
just a pure mirror which reflects that which is. And God is nothing but that which is. The third sutra:
EXAMINE THE NATURE OF UNBORN AWARENESS. Now you know what awareness is. You have known this transcendental awareness
where objects and subjects are no more existential. You have known for the first time this
purity, this crystal-clear mirror. Now examine the nature of this awareness. Look into it, look deep into it. Shake yourself into as full alertness as possible. Wake up
and see! And you will start laughing -- because now
you will see there has never been a birth, and there is never going to be a death. This is unborn and undying consciousness. It has always been here. It is eternal, it is
timeless. And how afraid you were of death, and how
afraid you were of old age, and how afraid you were of a thousand and one
things! And nothing has ever happened: all
was a dream. Seeing this, one smiles, one laughs. Your whole life up to now has been ridiculous,
absurd. You were unnecessarily afraid, unnecessarily
greedy, unnecessarily suffering. You were living in a nightmare and it was
your own creation. EXAMINE THE NATURE OF UNBORN AWARENESS. And you are freed from all misery, all suffering,
all hell. LET EVEN THE REMEDY ITSELF GO FREE ON ITS
OWN. And now don&#39;t start clinging to the remedy,
to the method. That temptation arises. It is
the last temptation, the very last effort of the mind to survive. The mind comes from a
back door, it tries once more. Before it disappears forever, it makes one
more effort, and that effort is to cling to the method -- the
method of thinking that all phenomena are dreams. It has given you such joy, such a deep experience
of reality, that naturally you would like to cling to it. And once you cling you are back in the same
old rut again: the mind is back in disguise. Cling to anything and the mind is back, because
clinging is mind. Hold on to
anything, depend on anything, and the mind is back, because the mind is dependence,
slavery. Possess anything -- even a spiritual method,
even a method of meditation -- become a possessor, and you are possessed
by it. Whether you possess money or you
possess a tremendously significant method of meditation, it doesn&#39;t matter. Whatsoever
you possess, you will be possessed by it and you will be afraid to lose it. Once a Sufi mystic was brought to me. For thirty years continuously he had used
the Sufi method ZIKR, and he had attained to great
experiences. One could see it; even ordinary
people were aware that he was living in a totally different world. You could see it in his
eyes, they were shining with joy. His very being had a vibe of the beyond. His disciples brought him to me, and they
said, &quot;Our master is a realized soul. What do
you say about him?&quot; I said, &quot;Leave your master with me for three
days, and then come back.&quot; The master stayed with me for three days. On the third day he was very angry, and he
said, &quot;You have destroyed my thirty years&#39; work!&quot; Because I told him a simple thing --
just this sutra of Atisha: LET EVEN THE REMEDY ITSELF GO.... I told him, &quot;Now for thirty years you have
been remembering one thing, that all is divine. The tree is God, the rock is God, the people
are God, the dog is God, everything is God --
for thirty years you have been remembering it continuously.&quot; And he had really made a
sincere effort. He said, &quot;Yes.&quot; I said, &quot;Now stop remembering. How long are you going to remember? If it has
happened, then stop remembering and let us see what happens. If it has really happened,
then even after dropping remembering, it will remain.&quot; It was so logical that he agreed. He said, &quot;It has happened.&quot; I said, &quot;Then give it a try. For three days you forget remembering, stop
remembering.&quot; He said, &quot;I cannot stop, it has become automatic.&quot; I said, &quot;You just wait and try.&quot; It took him at least two days, forty-eight
hours, to stop. It was hard to stop, it had become
automatic. There was now no need to remember; for thirty
years he had been remembering, it was simply there like an undercurrent. But within forty-eight hours it
stopped. And on the morning of the third day he was
very angry. He said, &quot;What have you done? All that joy has disappeared. I am feeling very ordinary, I am feeling the
same as I was before I started on the journey thirty years
ago.&quot; He started crying out of anger and out of
sadness; tears started coming to his eyes. He said, &quot;Give me back my method -- please
don&#39;t take it!&quot; I said, &quot;Just look! If this is so dependent on the method, then
nothing has happened. It is
just an illusion that you are creating by continuous remembering. This is nothing but
autohypnosis.&quot; All the great masters say this, that one day
you have to drop the method. And the sooner
you drop it, the better. The moment you attain, the moment awareness
is released in you, immediately drop the method. Just look: this is only the fourth sutra. In the third sutra Atisha says:
EXAMINE THE NATURE OF UNBORN AWARENESS. And in the fourth, immediately:
LET EVEN THE REMEDY ITSELF GO.... Now no more examination, no more mindfulness,
no more remembering that all is a dream. Once the first taste of awareness has happened
on your tongue, be quick! Because
the mind is very cunning -- the mind can start telling you, &quot;Look, you are no longer
ordinary, you are extraordinary. Look, you have attained. Look, you have become a
buddha, you are enlightened. Look, this is the goal of all human beings,
and very rarely, one in a million attains. You are that one in a million.&quot; The mind will say all these beautiful sweet
nothings, and of course the ego can come back. You can start feeling very good, holier than
thou. You can start feeling special,
spiritual, saintly. And all is lost. Through the remedy, the disease is back. Cling to the
remedy, and the disease is back. One has to be very alert about dropping the
method. Once you attain something,
immediately drop the method, otherwise your mind will start clinging to the method. It
will talk very logically to you, saying, &quot;It is the method that is important.&quot; Buddha used to tell a story again and again. Five idiots passed through a village. Seeing
them, people were surprised, because they were carrying a boat on their heads. The boat
was really big; it was almost crushing those five idiots, they were almost dying under
the weight of it. And people asked, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; They said, &quot;We cannot leave this boat. This is the boat that helped us to come from
the other shore to this shore. How can we leave it? It is because of it that we have been able
to come here. Without it we would have died on the other
shore. The night was coming
close, and there were wild animals on the other shore. It was as sure as anything that by
the morning we would have been dead. We will never leave this boat, we are indebted
forever. We will carry it on our heads in sheer gratitude.&quot; This can happen, because all minds are idiots. Mind as such is idiotic. The origin of the word idiot is beautiful
to remember. Idiocy means something private,
something special, something that is your own, something eccentric. That is the basic
meaning of idiocy -- to function in an eccentric way. The mind always functions in an eccentric
way, the mind is always an idiot. The really
intelligent person has no mind. Intelligence arises out of no-mind, idiocy
out of the mind. Mind is idiotic, no-mind is wise. No-mind is wisdom, intelligence. Mind depends on knowledge, on methods, on
money, on experience, on this and that. Mind always needs props, it needs supports,
it cannot exist on its own. On its own, it
flops. So the ultimate effort of the mind to come
back will be when you attain to some awareness. It will say, &quot;Look, so we have arrived.&quot; The moment something inside you
says, &quot;We have arrived,&quot; beware! Be very very cautious now, each step has to
be of great caution. LET EVEN THE REMEDY ITSELF GO FREE ON ITS
OWN. Now please don&#39;t cling to the remedy, to the
method. This is the emphasis of J.
Krishnamurti -- but this is his first sutra. It should be the fourth. That&#39;s where he is
wrong; it cannot be the first sutra. How can you drop a method that you have never
used? You can only drop a method that you have used. Atisha is far more logical, far more scientific,
than J. Krishnamurti. But I can understand
why he emphasizes it, because he is afraid that if you go into the first three sutras
the fourth may never arrive, you may be lost in
the first three. Many are lost in the
preliminaries, many are lost in the methods. So he has become too cautious, extremely
cautious. Those five idiots were carrying the boat,
and J. Krishnamurti is on the other shore teaching people: &quot;Don&#39;t enter the boat&quot; -- too
cautious! -- &quot;because if you enter the boat, who knows, you may start carrying the boat
on your head. So please don&#39;t enter it.&quot; And there are many who have become afraid
of entering the boat. But to be afraid of
entering the boat is the same idiocy; there is no difference. One who is afraid of entering
the boat is the same person who will carry the boat; otherwise why should you be afraid? There are old friends of mine who have followed
J. Krishnamurti for their whole life. They come to me and say, &quot;We would like to
come here, but we are afraid of all the methods that you teach. Methods are dangerous,&quot; they say. Methods are dangerous only if you are unaware;
otherwise they can be used beautifully. Do you think a boat is dangerous? It is dangerous if you are thinking to carry
it on your head for your whole life out of sheer gratitude;
otherwise it is just a raft to be used and discarded. All methods are rafts to be used and discarded,
used and abandoned, used and never looked back at again -- there is no
need, no point! These are two extremes. At one extreme are those five idiots, and
at the other extreme are the followers of J. Krishnamurti. There is no need to be either. My approach is: Use the
boat, use beautiful boats, use as many boats as possible; with this awareness, when the
shore is reached the boat is abandoned with no clinging. While you are in the boat, enjoy
it, be thankful to it. When you get out of the boat, say thank you
and move on. The fifth sutra:
SETTLE IN THE NATURE OF BASIC COGNITION, THE ESSENCE. If you drop the remedy, automatically you
will start settling in your being. The mind
clings; it never allows you to settle in your being. It keeps you interested in something
that you are not: the boats. When you don&#39;t cling to anything, there is
nowhere to go -- all boats have been abandoned, you cannot go anywhere; all paths
have been dropped, you cannot go anywhere; all dreams and desires have disappeared,
there is no way to move. Relaxation
happens of its own accord. Just think of the word relax. Be, settle, you have come home. SETTLE IN THE NATURE OF BASIC COGNITION, THE
ESSENCE. And when you settle, there is pure awareness,
with no effort, with no method. If
awareness needs a method it is still not true awareness, not the essential awareness, not
the natural spontaneous awareness. It is still a by-product of the method; it
is cultivated, created. It is a by-product of the mind, it is not
yet the truth. SETTLE IN THE NATURE OF BASIC COGNITION, THE
ESSENCE. Now there is nothing to do. See, be, enjoy: only this moment exists. This now, this here,
this cawing of the crows... and all is silence. To know this serenity is to know who you are,
what this existence is all about. This is
samadhi, in the words of Patanjali. This is SAMBODHI, in the words of Gautam Buddha. This is bodhichitta, in the words of Atisha. BETWEEN SESSIONS, CONSIDER PHENOMENA AS PHANTOMS. Now Atisha is really very aware of the disciple. He knows that these experiences of
settling into your being will be only momentary in the beginning. One moment you will
find yourself relaxed into your being, another moment it will be gone. In the beginning it
is bound to be so: one moment you are flooded with the unknown, with the mysterious,
another moment it is no more there. One moment all is fragrance, and the next
moment you are searching for it and you cannot find
it, where it has gone. Only glimpses will happen in the beginning. Slowly slowly they become more and more
solid, they abide more and more. Slowly slowly, slowly slowly, very slowly,
they settle forever. Before that you cannot 
be allowed to  take it for granted; that will be a mistake. Hence he says: Between sessions.... When you are sitting in meditation, a session
of meditation, this will happen -- but it will
go. So what are you supposed to do between sessions? BETWEEN SESSIONS, CONSIDER PHENOMENA AS PHANTOMS. Between sessions, continue to use the method. Drop the method when you are deep in
meditation. The moment comes, as awareness is getting
purer and purer, when suddenly it is utterly pure: drop the method, abandon
the method, forget all about the remedy, just settle and be. But this will happen only for moments in the
beginning. Sometimes it happens here
listening to me. Just for a moment, like a breeze, you are
transported into another world, the world of no-mind. Just for a moment, you know that you know
-- but only for a moment. And again the darkness gathers and the mind
is back with all its dreams, with all its desires and all its stupidities. For a moment the clouds had separated and
you had seen the sun. Now the clouds are
there again; it is all dark and the sun has disappeared. Now even to believe that the sun
exists will be difficult. Now to believe that what you had experienced
a moment before was true will be difficult. It may have been a fantasy; the mind may say
it may have just been imagination. It is so incredible, it looks so impossible,
that it could have happened to YOU. With all
this stupidity in the mind, with all these clouds and darknesses, it had happened to
you: you saw the sun for a moment. It doesn&#39;t look probable -- you must have
imagined it; maybe you had fallen into a dream and seen
it. Between sessions start again, be in the boat,
use the boat again. ... CONSIDER PHENOMENA AS PHANTOMS. Atisha is very considerate to the disciples. Otherwise the fourth sutra would have been
the last -- or, at the most, the fifth: SETTLE IN THE NATURE OF BASIC COGNITION, THE
ESSENCE. If Atisha had been a man like Bodhidharma,
the treatise would have finished at the fifth sutra, or even at the fourth:
LET EVEN THE REMEDY ITSELF GO FREE ON ITS OWN. Then the settling happens on its own. Bodhidharma was very miserly, he would not
have used the fifth, but Atisha is very considerate
to the disciple. He had been a disciple, so he
knew the difficulties of a disciple. And he had been a disciple of three great
masters, so he knew all the difficulties that a disciple
has to face. He had been a pilgrim; he knew all
the problems. And he had been a pilgrim on three paths,
all the three possible paths, so he knew all the problems and all the difficulties
and all the pitfalls and all the obstacles that
are bound to arise on the path of a disciple. Hence his considerateness. He says: Between
sessions.... Between these moments of meditativeness, between
these moments of utter joy, emptiness and purity, between these moments
of being, remember that all are dreams, that every phenomenon is a phantom. Go on using this method till the settling
has happened forever. TRAIN IN JOINING, SENDING AND TAKING TOGETHER.DO
THIS BY RIDING THE BREATH. Now emptiness has been experienced -- this
is what he had learned. Up to this sutra he
had been with the first master, Dharmakirti. With this sutra, the second master,
Dharmarakshita. TRAIN IN JOINING, SENDING AND TAKING TOGETHER.DO
THIS BY RIDING THE BREATH. Now he says: Start being compassionate. And the method is, when you breathe in -- listen
carefully, it is one of the greatest methods -- when you breathe in, think that you are
breathing in all the miseries of all the people in the world. All the darkness, all the
negativity, all the hell that exists anywhere, you are breathing it in. And let it be absorbed
in your heart. You may have read or heard about the so-called
positive thinkers of the West. They say
just the opposite -- they don&#39;t know what they are saying. They say, &quot;When you breathe
out, throw out all your misery and negativity; and when you breathe in, breathe in joy,
positivity, happiness, cheerfulness.&quot; Atisha&#39;s method is just the opposite: when
you breathe in, breathe in all the misery and
suffering of all the beings of the world -- past, present and future. And when you breathe
out, breathe out all the joy that you have, all the blissfulness that you have, all the
benediction that you have. Breathe out, pour yourself into existence. This is the method
of compassion: drink in all the suffering and pour out all the blessings. And you will be surprised if you do it. The moment you take all the sufferings of
the world inside you, they are no longer sufferings. The heart immediately transforms the
energy. The heart is a transforming force: drink in
misery, and it is transformed into blissfulness... then pour it out. Once you have learned that your heart can
do this magic, this miracle, you would like to
do it again and again. Try it. It is one of the most practical methods -- simple,
and it brings immediate results. Do it today, and see. That is one of the approaches of Buddha and
all his disciples. Atisha is one of his
disciples, in the same tradition, in the same line. Buddha says again and again to his
disciples, &quot;IHI PASSIKO: come and see!&quot; They are very scientific people. Buddhism is
the most scientific religion on the earth; hence, Buddhism is gaining more and more
ground in the world every day. As the world becomes more intelligent, Buddha
will become more and more important. It is bound to be so. As more and more people come to
know about science, Buddha will have great appeal, because he will convince the
scientific mind -- because he says, &quot;Whatsoever I am saying can be practiced.&quot; And I
don&#39;t say to you, &quot;Believe it,&quot; I say, &quot;Experiment with it, experience it, and only then if
you feel it yourself, trust it. Otherwise there is no need to believe.&quot; Try this beautiful method of compassion: take
in all the misery and pour out all the joy. TRAIN IN JOINING, SENDING AND TAKING TOGETHER. DO THIS BY RIDING
THE BREATH. THREE OBJECTS, THREE POISONS, THREE BASES
OF VIRTUE. There are three objects which can either function
as three poisons or can become three bases of infinite virtue. Atisha is talking of the inner alchemy. The poison can become the
nectar, the baser metal can be transformed into gold. What are these three objects? The first is aversion, the second is attachment,
and the third is indifference. This is how the mind functions. You feel aversion to whatsoever you
dislike, you feel attachment to whatsoever you like, and you feel indifferent to things
which you neither dislike nor like. These are the three objects. Between these three, the
mind exists. These are the three legs of the tripod called
the mind: aversion, attachment and indifference. And if you live in these three as they are,
you are living in poison. This is how we have created a hell out of
life. Aversion, dislike, hatred, repulsion -- that
creates one-third of your hell. Attachment, liking, clinging, possessiveness
-- that creates the second one-third of your hell. And indifference to all that you are neither
attracted to nor repulsed by -- that creates the third
part, the third one-third of your hell. Just watch your mind, this is how your mind
functions. It is always saying, &quot;I like this, I
don&#39;t like that, and I am indifferent to the third.&quot; These are the three ways the mind goes
on moving. This is the rut, the routine. Atisha says: These are the three poisons,
but they can become the three bases of virtue. How can they become three bases of great virtue? If you bring in the quality of
compassion, if you learn the art of absorbing suffering, as if all the suffering of the
world is coming riding on the breath, then how can
you be repulsed? How can you dislike
anything and how can you be indifferent to anything? And how can you be attached to
anything? If you are unconditionally taking in all the
suffering in the world, drinking it, absorbing it in your heart, and then instead
of it pouring blessings onto the whole of existence unconditionally -- not to somebody
in particular, remember; not only to man but to all: to all beings, trees and rocks
and birds and animals, to the whole existence, material, immaterial -- when you are pouring
out blessings unconditionally, how can you be attached? Attachment, aversion, indifference: all disappear
with this small technique. And with
their disappearance the poison is transformed into nectar, and the bondage becomes
freedom, and the hell is no more a hell, it is heaven. In these moments you come to know: This very
body the buddha, this very earth the lotus paradise. And the last sutra:
TRAIN WITH PHRASES IN EVERY MODE OF BEHAVIOR. Atisha is not an escapist. He does not teach escapism, he does not tell
you to move from situations which are not to your liking. He says: You have to learn to function in
bodhichitta, in buddha-consciousness, in all kinds of situations -- in the marketplace,
in the monastery; with people in the crowd or
alone in a cave; with friends or with enemies; with family, familiar people, and with strangers;
with men and with animals. In all kinds
of situations, in all kinds of challenges, you have to learn to function in compassion,
in meditation -- because all these experiences
of different situations will make your bodhichitta more and more ripe. Don&#39;t escape from any situation -- if you
escape, then something will remain missing in
you. Then your bodhichitta will not be that ripe,
will not be that rich. Live life in its
multidimensionality. And that&#39;s what I teach you too: Live life
in its totality. And living in the world, don&#39;t be
of it. Live in the world like a lotus flower in water:
it lives in water, but the water touches it not. Only then will bodhichitta flower in you,
bloom in you. Only then will you come
to know the ultimate consciousness which is freedom, which is joy, eternal joy, which
is benediction. Not to know it is to miss the whole point
of life; to know it  is the only goal. The only goal -- remember it. And remember, Atisha&#39;s sutras are not philosophical,
not speculative, not abstract. They
are experimental, they are scientific. Let me repeat again: religion is a science
in the sense that it is the purest knowing. Yet it
is not a science in the sense of chemistry and physics. It is not the science of the outward,
it is the science of the inward. It is not the science of the exterior, it
is the science of the interior. It is the science that takes you beyond, it
is the science that takes you into the unknown and the unknowable. It is the greatest adventure there is. It is a call and a
challenge to all those who have any courage, any guts, any intelligence. Religion is not for cowards, it is for people
who want to live dangerously. Enough for today. 